c0

c9

“In this new and expanded edition of Glittering Vices, Rebecca Konyndyk DeYoung offers wise and compassionate soul care that is historically rooted, biblically sound, and surgically precise. A skilled philosopher and gifted teacher, DeYoung makes the wisdom of the desert accessible for contemporary audiences through relevant cultural references and honest personal examples, inviting us to see where we’re captive and deceived so that we’re better able to cooperate with the Holy Spirit’s work of conforming us to the likeness of Christ. I have long been a fan of DeYoung’s work, and this revised edition—with its even deeper emphasis on the grace that frames the process of self-examination and the spiritual practices that help us counteract the gravitational pull of the vices—is a liberating and joyful read.”

—Sharon Garlough Brown, author of the Sensible Shoes series, Shades of Light, and Remember Me

“The revised edition of Glittering Vices helpfully builds on the insights of the first edition and deeply probes the nature of the disease that has infected all God’s precious image-bearers. DeYoung skillfully analyzes the sickness that plagues us in its various manifestations and wonderfully provides healing antidotes in her presentation of the classical spiritual disciplines. This is surely one of the best books written on the vices and their cure in the past one hundred years, if not longer.”

—Chris Hall, president, Renovaré

“The second edition of Glittering Vices complements DeYoung’s now classic, incisive, and—to any honest and self-reflective reader—humbling analysis of the vices with an inspiring account of spiritual disciplines that counteracts those vices. Far from a simple self-help project, DeYoung’s work offers a theologically nuanced account of divine and human agency that would please any scholastic theologian as well as wise counsel on the need for continued vigilance and ongoing growth that would make any classic spiritual master proud. Glittering Vices is read equally profitably as a moral theology of vice and virtue and as a spiritual discipline itself.”

—William C. Mattison III, University of Notre Dame

cR

c12

© 2009, 2020 by Rebecca Konyndyk DeYoung

Published by Brazos Press

a division of Baker Publishing Group

PO Box 6287, Grand Rapids, MI 49516-6287

www.brazospress.com

Ebook edition created 2020

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means—for example, electronic, photocopy, recording—without the prior written permission of the publisher. The only exception is brief quotations in printed reviews.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is on file at the Library of Congress, Washington, DC.

ISBN 978-1-4934-2216-6

Unless otherwise indicated, Scripture quotations are from the New Revised Standard Version of the Bible, copyright © 1989 National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States of America. Used by permission. All rights reserved.

Scripture quotations labeled NIV are from the Holy Bible, New International Version®. NIV®. Copyright © 1973, 1978, 1984, 2011 by Biblica, Inc.™ Used by permission of Zondervan. All rights reserved worldwide. www.zondervan.com. The “NIV” and “New International Version” are trademarks registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office by Biblica, Inc.™

“To a Long Loved Love,” “Within This Quickened Dust,” and “Epiphany” from The Ordering of Love by Madeleine L’Engle, © Crosswicks, Ltd. Used by permission. All rights reserved.

“To a Long Loved Love: 7” from The Weather of the Heart by Madeleine L’Engle, copyright © 1978 by Crosswicks, Ltd. Used by permission of WaterBrook Multnomah, an imprint of Random House, a division of Penguin Random House LLC. All rights reserved.

“In the Lord I’ll Be Ever Thankful,” words by the Community of Taizé, music by Jacques Berthier, copyright 1991, Ateliers et Presses de Taizé, Taizé Community, France, GIA Publications, Inc., exclusive North American agent. Used by permission.

Excerpt from Piers Plowman: A Modern Verse Translation © 2014. William Langland. Translated by Peter Sutton by permission of McFarland & Company, Inc., Box 611, Jefferson NC 28640. www.mcfarlandbooks.com.

c1U

Contents

Cover i

Endorsements ii

Title Page iii

Copyright Page iv

Preface vii

Acknowledgments xi

1. Why Study the Vices? 1

2. Gifts from the Desert: The Origins and History of the Vices Tradition 21

3. Vainglory: Image Is Everything 41

4. Envy: Feeling Bitter When Others Have It Better 67

5. Sloth (Acedia): Resistance to the Demands of Love 87

6. Avarice: Possession and Mastery 111

7. Wrath: Holy Emotion or Hellish Passion? 137

8. Gluttony: Feeding Your Face and Starving Your Heart 163

9. Lust: Sexuality Stripped Down 189

10. The Rest of the Journey: Self-Examination, the Seven Capital Vices, and Spiritual Formation 217

Epilogue 235

Notes 243

Index 269

Back Cover 275

c2X

Preface

This is a book about sin and self-examination, but sin should never be the first or last word about us.

The Christian life begins and ends with love. Ultimately, what draws us from brokenness and bondage is the power of love—God’s love. Taking our inspiration from Henri Nouwen, we can say that our belovedness and blessedness form the essential context for confronting our brokenness.

Advertisers rarely give us a picture of what we should reject. They craft their messages based on a key insight into human nature. They know that what draws the human heart and fuels the human spirit is love of something good. We are moved, powered, captivated by a glimpse of something in front of us that we long for more and more wholeheartedly. The images they put before us promise a good and beautiful life (or at least a replica, or a convincing fantasy). In short, they start with a vision of what we desire. The reason this works so well is that it is an imitation—and a cheap imitation at that—of what God does for us. He sets before us abundant life. It’s the life we were made for. Don’t let anything hold you back from it. God wills to draw you into his heart of love, like a magnet pulling an iron filing into a close bond of connection. Allow that image to fuel your spiritual journey through this book.

When I wrote the first edition of Glittering Vices, I was coming straight from a philosophical study of Aquinas’s Summa theologiae and the vices tradition. I found the primary source material conceptually rich but also—surprisingly—personal. I confess I did not expect to find these texts speaking to my own deep spiritual longings. I was not alone in this reaction, though. My students encouraged me to condense the course material into a book, because they found it was the most practical thing they’d studied yet in college.

They wanted to know: How should I live? What sorts of goods and what types of relationships should I commit to and center my life on? What patterns of thought and rhythms of desire have I fallen into that are thwarting that good life? How do I discern that? What would restoration and freedom feel like? How do I move forward into new practices and a new way of life?

My best description of this book is that it is a translation, colored by my own experience, of ancient ideas from disciples and saints who have walked in wisdom before me. Glittering Vices is my attempt to make this material understandable and accessible to contemporary Christians and other students of the vices.

The implicit frame of the book is sanctification—that is, the ways the Holy Spirit operates in our lives to conform us more and more to the character of Jesus Christ. God is working for us, and with us, and in us. When vices prompt self-examination and reflection, this is neither a guilt trip nor a recipe for despair. Rather, anything convicting that you find in these pages is an invitation to be set free.

In my original, more philosophical frame for the book, I was mentally pairing the deformation of our character through the vices with the reformation of our character through the virtues. That’s not entirely off course, but I prefer a different schema for thinking about the project now. The vices mark things we need to leave behind. That is our starting point. The virtues, by contrast, mark the end or goal; they give us a picture of the Christlike life in all of its fullness. What’s the bridge between the two then? The ancient philosophers would say “habituation in virtue.” Start practicing. Try harder.

A more adequate and effective response invokes “graced disciplines,” daily rhythms of discipleship that bridge a life held captive to vice and a life that shines with beautiful virtue. Character reform is not powered simply by our own efforts. It’s true that we must do something, and that we must be intentional about doing it. But what we often find is that something is also being done in us, and it’s not always what we anticipated or intended. In those moments, our efforts are, at their best, ways of opening our lives and submitting ourselves to the Spirit’s transforming work. Spiritual disciplines cover everything from resting, working, speaking, listening, spending, and giving, to recreation and celebration, feasting and fasting, worship, prayer, solitude, and silence. The Spirit’s goal is to reshape and enliven every inch and corner of your life and character.

The book’s purpose is to share wisdom that helps you more wholeheartedly live that kind of life.

c3H

Acknowledgments

I wrote this book with the generous support of many people and institutions. Calvin University (formerly Calvin College) granted me a sabbatical in 2005 to work on the first edition, and the Calvin Center for Christian Scholarship provided funding in 2007 to revise it. I also attended a National Endowment for the Humanities seminar on the vices in 2006 at Cambridge University. Thanks also to Rodney Clapp and Lisa Ann Cockrel for their editorial help on the first edition, and to Mary Vanden Berg for her prayers.

For the second edition, Calvin University provided a research fellowship in fall 2018, thanks to a generous gift from Alvin Plantinga; I, like many Christian philosophers across the globe, owe him a debt of gratitude. Kristen Lundberg served as my student research assistant, with support from Calvin University’s Honors Research Fellows program. The board and staff of Renovaré featured Glittering Vices in their book club, prayed for me and for my work, and pointed me to resources on spiritual formation that shaped the new edition. I am also deeply grateful to Sharon Garlough Brown for her friendship. Listening to students in her spiritual formation class challenged me to think more deeply about how the vices translate into our time and context. Lastly, I owe thanks to everyone at Brazos who made the second edition possible.

This book originally grew out of my teaching and remains rooted there. It is, in many significant respects, written for my students at Calvin University, although I have been delighted to see it find its way into many other classrooms and conversations since its first printing. Classes that I taught between 2002 and 2019 on the virtues and vices inspired much of the book’s content. As I sought to help students understand the historical Christian moral tradition, I soon realized how impressed they were by its practical value as well. One student nicknamed the course Spiritual Formation 101, a testimony to the way the tradition came alive and offered them moral and spiritual guidance. My students were, and still are, the deepest inspiration for my work, and their formation has always been the most important part of my calling to teach. I dedicate these reflections on the vices, therefore, to them.

c3V

1 
Why Study the Vices?

To flee vice is the beginning of virtue.

—Horace, Epistles

In the first year of my professional training in philosophy, I found myself in graduate school, wondering if I belonged somewhere else. Everyone in my classes seemed so smart, so witty, so well read, so eager and able to ask brilliant and insightful questions. I felt like an impostor. How did I—obviously so inferior—ever get admitted with these people? How soon would they find out who I really was (or wasn’t) and quietly shoo me out the back door in disgrace? Partly I struggled with genuinely difficult philosophical texts, and some difficult life circumstances; mostly, however, I struggled with my own sense of inadequacy. So instead of engaging in class discussions and seeking out opportunities to improve myself, I spent that first year of graduate school pulling back into the shadows, believing I had nothing much to contribute, hoping no one would notice when I wrote or said something stupid.1

A few years later, while reading Thomas Aquinas on the virtue of courage, I happened across a vice he called pusillanimity, which means “smallness of soul.” Those afflicted by this vice, wrote Aquinas, shrink back from all that God has called them to be. When faced with the effort and difficulty of stretching themselves to the great things of which they are capable, they cringe and say, “I can’t.” Their faintheartedness comes from relying on their own puny powers and focusing on their own potential for failure, instead of counting on God’s grace to equip them for great kingdom work—work beyond anything they would have dreamed of for themselves. Picture Moses at the burning bush, said Aquinas. The future leader of Israel, called to lead them in one of the greatest episodes of their history—the exodus from Egypt—stands there stuttering that he’s not qualified and asks God to send Aaron instead.

Reading Aquinas’s account of the vice of pusillanimity felt like seeing myself in the mirror for the first time. It gave a name to my struggle, one that made sense of my anxiety and sense of unworthiness. At the same time, the biblical portrait of Moses presented inspiring evidence that God’s power and grace can transform even—or especially—the weakest and most fearful of us.2 Moses’s pusillanimity did not have the last word in his life; God did.

It’s a bit ironic, I suppose, that the discovery of this vice in myself turned out to be not only illuminating but also liberating. At last, I understood what held me back. Calling it by name was a small yet significant step toward gradually wresting free of its grip. It took a bracing word from Aquinas to show me that my fear of failure in graduate school was not the main problem; my pusillanimity was really a symptom of my lack of trust in God. How could I have missed something so basic? That I shrank back from all God called me to be and that I judged my own abilities as inadequate because I was not relying on God’s grace and strength—these insights are so obvious that I should have seen them for myself. Yet seeing ourselves clearly is often difficult. Sometimes we need to hear a precise diagnosis from someone else, and to hear it at a particular time.

I have often joked that every time I read Aquinas I discover another vice I didn’t realize I had. Perhaps you don’t run the risk of becoming a moral hypochondriac who finds yourself guilty of a new sin every day. Nonetheless, my sense is that most of us would benefit from some deeper moral reflection and self-examination—as I did in graduate school.

A study of personal vices can catalyze spiritual growth, if it is done within the context of spiritual formation. In fact, the Christian tradition framed it that way from the beginning. My doorway into that tradition came through Aquinas. The project of spiritual formation finds a natural home in his work, since he does not organize his major text on the moral life around the vices, but rather around the virtues and spiritual gifts. Aquinas’s focus and framework point to the people of good character we are meant to become. As our primary task, we should pursue righteousness and moral excellence—not obsess over our weakness and sin. The second part of the Summa theologiae on the virtues and vices culminates in the third part on Christ, who perfectly models virtue and gives us his Spirit so that we can imitate his example. Along with Aquinas and many others in the Christian tradition whose insights he drew upon, then, the present study will examine the vices within the context of spiritual formation. Inspired by the wisdom of this rich community of thought and practice, this book offers conceptual tools to illuminate our personal stories, enables penetrating diagnoses of our struggles with the vices, and—most important—gives us a glimpse of life and virtue beyond the entrapments of sin.

Contemporary Treatments of the Seven Deadly Sins

Reading Aquinas, I found the vices to have revealing and illuminating power. By contrast, many voices in contemporary culture dismiss, redefine, psychologize, or trivialize them.

Some dismiss the vices on the grounds that they are not (or are no longer) moral problems at all. In a tract republished by NavPress, the Reverend James Stalker proclaims, “On the whole, I should be inclined to say, gluttony is a sin which the civilized man has outgrown; and there is not much need for referring to it in the pulpit.”3 Francine Prose, likewise, confuses gluttony with feasting in her chapter “Great Moments of Gluttony,”4 and Robert Solomon questions “why God would bother to raise a celestial eyebrow” about the vices, given that “the ‘deadly sins’ barely jiggle the scales of justice”—as if sloth were nothing more than “a bloke who can’t get out of bed,” lust nothing more than “one too many peeks at a Playboy pictorial,” and gluttony nothing more than “scarf[ing] down three extra jelly doughnuts.”5 Businesses and philosophers alike commend envy as incentivizing competitiveness and motivating greater ambition.6 Dismissals of the vices as irrelevant or trivial would be serious charges indeed if they had anything much to do with the traditional conceptions of sloth, lust, gluttony, and the rest.

Other authors attempt to redefine the seven vices as virtues—and to recommend them as such. In most of these cases too, what they are talking about has little or no relation to the original vice. For example, Michael Eric Dyson celebrates “black pride” in his book on the vice of pride.7 And Wendy Wasserstein’s hilarious parody of sloth offers a rigorous “self-improvement plan” for becoming lazier.8 As the book jacket promises, “To help you attain the perfect state of indolent bliss, the book offers a wealth of self-help aids. In it, readers will find the sloth songbook, sloth breakfast bars (with a delicious touch of Ambien), sloth documentaries (such as the author’s 12-hour epic on Thomas Aquinas), and the sloth network, programming guaranteed not to stimulate or challenge in any way.”

Martin Marty reports that the French sent a delegation to the Vatican to get gluttony off the list, because la gourmandise (the French term usually translated as “gluttony”) connotes not gluttony but “a warmhearted approach to the table, to receiving and giving pleasure through good company and food.”9 Articles commending slothful sleep habits to overly busy Americans claim that more rest will boost our productivity.10 More perniciously, Simon Blackburn rejects altogether the notion of disordered sexual desire in his book on lust. “Everything is all right,” he reassures us. “By understanding it for what it is, we can reclaim lust for humanity, and we can learn that lust flourishes best when it is unencumbered by bad philosophy and ideology, by falsities, by controls . . . which prevent its freedom of flow.”11

Elsewhere, the vices are psychologized. We think of gluttony as an old-fashioned name for various eating disorders; we turn to anger management seminars to address wrath. Serious reflection on pride gets replaced with talk of self-esteem and self-worth; vainglory reduces to narcissistic behavior or social media addictions; and we treat sloth on a spectrum from simple procrastination to serious depression. Psychologist Solomon Schimmel recounts a session with one Catholic patient who struggled with lust: “What were the effects of therapy? My client overcame unpleasant feelings about premarital sex with an affectionate companion who was also a marriage prospect. . . . Therapy made her much happier.”12 The general implication is that just as we have moved beyond the religious counsel of benighted ancient Christian monastics, so now we can safely leave behind any notion of the danger or significance of these “vices” as genuine moral or spiritual problems. I would argue that the complex integration of the psychological and spiritual in us deserves more serious consideration.13

If the vices are serious problems, then it is even worse to treat them as nothing but a matter of lighthearted humor (even if these treatments are genuinely funny). Evelyn Waugh remarks that the term “sloth” is “seldom on modern lips. When it is used, it is a mildly facetious variant on ‘indolence,’ and indolence, surely, so far from being a deadly sin, is one of the world’s most amiable of weaknesses. Most of the world’s troubles seem to come from people who are too busy. If only politicians and scientists were lazier, how much happier we should all be”—in part, he goes on to argue, because then we wouldn’t make the effort to commit any of the really bad sins, such as pride.14 And in 1987, Harper’s magazine ran a feature called “You Can Have It All! Seven Campaigns for Deadly Sin,” in which seven Madison Avenue advertising agencies each created a print ad “selling” one of the seven vices. Sloth’s tagline reads, “If the original sin had been sloth, we’d still be in Paradise.” Santa Claus, “the world’s foremost authority,” soberly endorses greed: “Do you remember all those things you told me you wanted as a child? Well, your list may have changed, but I bet it hasn’t gotten any shorter.” And if lust needed a further recommendation, the ad offers this argument: “Any sin that’s enabled us to survive centuries of war, death, pestilence, and famine can’t be called deadly! Lust: where would be without it?”15 An Archie McFee catalog sells color-coded wristbands, themed for the seven vices, so you can “flaunt your fatal flaw”: wear red on wrathful days, green on envious days, and collect all seven for only $13.95.

The website Seven Deadly Sins offers a “sinopsis” of each of the vices, including an explanation of why we commit them. We are greedy, for example, because we “live in possibly the most pampered, consumerist society since the Roman Empire”; prideful because our “well-meaning elementary school teachers told [us] to ‘believe in [ourselves]’”; and envious because “other people are so much luckier, smarter, more attractive, and better than we are.”16 Magazine articles, advertisements, and websites use the rubric of the sins as a rhetorical gimmick, recounting the “seven deadly sins” of everything from home remodeling (“don’t blow a gasket”), human resources, college teaching, and retirement planning, to backpacking and small-group ministry. Wines are christened after the seven (“Seven Deadly Zins” is, of course, a Zinfandel). Internet speculation links the seven vices to the seven dwarfs, the inhabitants of Gilligan’s Island, and even characters from SpongeBob SquarePants. And an ingenious cartoon links them to keyboard shortcuts (CTRL-S for pride, INSERT for lust, CTRL-ALT-DEL for wrath, CTRL-C for envy, NUM LOCK for greed, ESC for sloth) so you can commit all seven in a single day’s work at the office.17

Most contemporary approaches to the vices, therefore, neither recognize nor respect the centuries of Christian teaching on the subject. It has all but vanished from view. If all we know about the vices comes from contemporary sources, we will probably oversimplify, stereotype, and scoff at moral problems or rationalize them away. It’s so easy to substitute silly or shallow parodies for the actual content of centuries of moral reflection by philosophers and theologians, contemplatives and spiritual directors. But if contemporary voices do indeed misunderstand the tradition, or present only a shallow and dismissive reading of it, then in following them, we risk misunderstanding both our past and ourselves. If we did return to traditional sources to learn what gluttony is and what kind of power it can wield in us, would we find it so natural and unproblematic that vastly more Christians today are dieting than fasting? Could we be missing something here? It’s ironic that books about selfies and social media use line bookshelves everywhere, but no one has a name for the human hunger for recognition behind our mesmerized fascination with the self-images we create and curate with our phones. Would we see ourselves more clearly if we could add vainglory back into our current vocabulary and conceptual toolbox?

An honest look at our own intellectual history requires that we listen carefully to the wisdom of the past. Unless we have some sense of what our own tradition has to say, Christians will not know how to engage contemporary challenges to historical conceptions of the vices. What is worth keeping and defending from the past? What insights might enrich our own spiritual formation and confessional practices? What concepts and definitions will enable us to recognize what’s missing and restore broken aspects of our world and culture? Most fundamentally, of course, a Christian understanding of these seven vices requires taking sin and vice to be genuine moral categories. This book aims both to take sin and spiritual formation seriously and to take centuries of Christian wisdom on the subject seriously as well.

Vices and Virtues

In a book on the vices, we ought to be clear what a vice is. Moreover, how should we distinguish vices and virtues? And how does “vice” mean something different from “sin”? Understanding these terms will give us a foundation to explore the tradition and its history in the next chapter, where we will answer questions like these: Where did the list of vices come from? What does it mean to call some of them “capital vices” and some of them “deadly sins”? Which ones should we single out as “capital,” which as “deadly,” and why? We begin here, however, with the concept of vice itself.

Although most references to the lists of seven use “vice” and “sin” in a roughly synonymous way, distinguishing the two turns out to be important. A vice (or its counterpart, a virtue), first of all, is a habit or a character trait. Unlike something we are born with—such as an outgoing personality or a predisposition to have high cholesterol levels—virtues and vices count as moral qualities. We can cultivate habits or break them down over time through our repeated actions. While we can’t become more generous, for example, in a single day by simply willing to be so or by doing one generous thing, we can deliberately make repeated choices and engage in regular practices that develop that virtue. That is, we have a kind of indirect voluntary control over such habits. Thus, as the Greek philosopher Aristotle puts it, we are ultimately responsible for our character.

By way of an analogy, think of a winter sledding party in which a group of people head out to smooth a path through freshly fallen snow. The first sled goes down slowly, carving out a rut. Other sleds follow, over and over, down the same path, smoothing and packing down the snow. After many trips a well-worn groove develops, a path out of which it is hard to steer. The groove enables sleds to stay aligned and on course, gliding rapidly, smoothly, and easily on their way. Character traits function like that: the first run down, which required some effort and tough going, gradually becomes a smooth track that we glide down without further intentional steering.18 Of course, a rider can always stick out a boot and throw the sled off course, usually damaging the track as well. So too we can act out of character, even after being in the groove for a long time. In general, however, habits incline us swiftly, smoothly, and reliably toward certain types of action.

Virtues are “excellences” of character, habits or dispositions of character that help us live well as excellent human beings. So, for example, having the virtue of courage enables us to stand firm in a good purpose amid pain or difficulty, when someone without the virtue would run away or give up. A courageous friend stands up for us when our reputation is unfairly maligned, despite risk to his own personal or professional reputation; a courageous mother cares for her sick child through inconvenience, sleepless nights, and exposure to disease. Courageous people stay faithful to other people and to their commitments when the going gets rough. Having courage, like all the virtues, enables the loving, trusting, and secure human relationships that are essential to a good human life.

Courageous individuals still count as admirable people even when their good purposes are thwarted: when the friend’s reputation becomes unfairly tarnished or when the sick child does not recover. We still think it is better to be the sort of parent who suffers for and with her sick child than to be the sort of parent who can’t handle sacrifice and abandons the hard work of caregiving. So virtue helps us both to live and to act well and to be good people (that’s Aristotle again).19 The vices, by contrast, are corruptive and destructive habits. They undermine both our goodness of character and our living and acting well. In the chapters that follow, we will examine how wrath, lust, gluttony, and all the others have a corrosive effect on our lives—how they eat away at our ability to see things clearly, to appreciate things as we ought, to love and live in healthy relationships with others, and to refrain from self-destructive patterns of behavior.

As we gradually internalize virtues and vices through years of formation, they become firm and settled parts of our character. It’s common to develop habits by imitating those around us or following their instruction. We may or may not be intentional about all of our habit formation. For example, most children develop habits by imitating their parents, and in this way both virtues and vices can “rub off,” so to speak. Habit formation is the cumulative effect of multiple exposures and many small, casual choices, similar to developing a habit of swearing or smoking, or beginning the day with a cup of coffee or a fitness routine. Psychologists confirm that we need regular repetition (forty to sixty days, approximately) to build a habit. Someone who wants to break an old (bad) habit, however, may need even more serious deliberation and self-discipline. Sometimes we have a crisis that brings a new perspective. We see ourselves as if for the first time and want to change. But to make good on that desire to change, we have to wrestle daily out of a deeply ingrained groove—sometimes even for the rest of our lives.

Very simply, we acquire a virtue (or vice) through practice—repeated activity that increases our proficiency and ease at the activity and gradually forms our character. Alasdair MacIntyre describes a child learning to play chess to illustrate the process of habit formation.20 Imagine, writes MacIntyre, that in hopes of teaching an uninterested seven-year-old to play chess, you offer the child candy—one piece if he plays and another if he wins the game. Motivated by his sweet tooth, the child agrees. At first, he plays for the candy alone. At this stage, he will cheat to win, in order to get more candy. But the more the child plays, the better at chess he gets. And the better at chess he gets, the more he enjoys playing, eventually coming to enjoy the game for itself. At this point in the process, he no longer plays for the candy; now the child plays because he enjoys chess and delights in excellent play. Because he has now gained a practitioner’s inside view, he understands both the intrinsic value of the game and the way cheating will rob him of that. He has become a chess player.

Moral formation in virtue works much the same way. We often need external incentives and sanctions to get us through the initial stages of the process, when our untutored impulses and entrenched desires still pull us toward the opposite behavior. But with encouragement, discipline, and often a role model or mentor, practice eventually makes things feel more natural and enjoyable. Through that practice, moreover, we gradually develop the internal values and desires corresponding to our outward behavior. Virtue often develops, that is, from the outside in. That’s why, when we want to re-form our character from vice to virtue, we often need to practice and persevere in regular spiritual disciplines and formational practices for a lengthy period of time. There is no quick and easy substitute for daily repetition over the long haul. First we have to pull the sled out of the old rut, and then gradually build up a new track.

As with most human endeavors, we usually do not do this alone. Our parents, obviously, contribute deeply to our character formation, but so do friends, mentors, social networks (local and digital), historical figures, and the community of saints past and present. If we marry, our spouse will shape our character, as will our teachers, and the fictional characters we watch and read about and find inspiring. Our coworkers influence our habit formation, and so do the peers with whom we spend the most time. This is why good parents care so much about whom their children choose as friends. When we make a new resolution or try to cultivate a new habit, having a community back us, or even a single partner with whom to practice or from whom to learn, can make all the difference.

In the end, both virtues and vices are habits that can eventually become “natural” to us. Philosophers (most famously, perhaps, Plato in the Republic) describe the perfect achievement of virtue as yielding internal harmony and integrity. Compare, for example, the following two married persons: The first, we’ll call Jane. Although she resists them, Jane regularly struggles with sexual feelings for men other than her husband. The second, call him Joe, has enjoyed an ardent affection for his wife throughout the ups and downs of thirty years of marriage. Are they both faithful? In a technical sense at least, yes. Jane successfully exercises self-control over her wayward desires. But only Joe embodies fidelity as a virtue. His faithfulness has taken deep root in who he is. While we can certainly give her moral credit for her efforts, Jane’s faithfulness stays on the surface, as the uncomfortable voice of conscience countering her wayward inclinations and keeping her actions in check.21 By contrast, Joe’s desires harmonize fully with his considered judgment.22 Who wouldn’t rather have a spouse with Joe’s fidelity than Jane’s self-control?

Aristotle called this the difference between acting according to virtue (that is, according to an external standard that tells us what we ought to do, regardless of whether we feel like it) and acting from virtue (that is, from the internalized disposition that naturally yields its corresponding action).23 The person who acts from virtue performs actions that fit seamlessly with his or her inward character. Thus, the telltale sign of virtue is doing the right thing with a sense of peace and pleasure. What feels like second nature to you?24 These are the marks of your character.

Virtues and Virtuous Character

As the previous examples make clear, it’s not enough merely to want to be virtuous, or to wish we had greater harmony between our motivation and our action. We can aspire to be good people with virtuous character, or desire not to be so corrupt or weak, but not yet have a clear sense of how to achieve those goals. “Cultivate good character” will remain nothing more than an empty prescription if we don’t know what good character amounts to and how to cultivate it. We need to be able to pinpoint our shortcomings and set our sights on specific objectives. If cultivating virtue and avoiding vice is the key to moral formation, then we need to know first of all what the particular virtues and vices are.

When I ask my students and friends to list various virtues, they invariably name things like honesty, courage, compassion, and generosity; for the vices, the list usually includes qualities like cowardice, greed, and selfishness. A Newsweek article on character education came up with this list of virtues: “prudence, respect, loyalty, love, justice, courage, hope, honesty, compassion, fairness, and self-control.”25 Both lists capture traits that psychologists call “character strengths” and “core virtues,” as does the list made famous by Petersen and Seligman:

Wisdom and Knowledge: creativity, curiosity, open-mindedness, love of learning, perspective, innovation

Courage: bravery, persistence, integrity, vitality, zest

Humanity: love, kindness, social intelligence

Justice: citizenship, fairness, leadership

Temperance: forgiveness and mercy, humility, prudence, self-control

Transcendence: appreciation of beauty and excellence, gratitude, hope, humor, spirituality26

Answers like these are generally on the right track. Despite our distance from traditions of ethics centered on the virtues and vices, we retain a sense of what should count. But why privilege one list over another? What makes one list a random collection and another an ordered set?

The lists compiled by my students and contemporary psychologists alike usually share an important feature with the lists that come out of the Christian virtue tradition. The process of compiling lists of virtues (and vices) implicitly starts with thinking about moral ideals embodied in heroes, saints, or cultural icons (or villains). We implicitly draw our lists from a mental picture of someone we admire (or despise) as an example of moral excellence (or corruption). Role models who embody a moral ideal anchor our moral education into the virtues (or vices), since we typically learn and acquire character traits by observing and imitating others.27 From those models or ideals, we can then analyze more specifically what we find admirable or dishonorable about that person’s character. A United States Marine embodies honor, courage, and fidelity; an Olympic athlete embodies perseverance and hope; a family practice doctor embodies compassion and wisdom; saints such as Mother Teresa are a model of humility and mercy; civic heroes such as Martin Luther King Jr. and Abraham Lincoln are a picture of justice and courage.

The Christian tradition also explicitly names one principal role model, a picture of perfected human nature, the image of God redeemed and restored, the one to be emulated by all human beings. As Aquinas writes, “Our Savior the Lord Jesus Christ . . . showed us in His own person the way of truth.”28 Christ’s life and ministry model the virtues for us. We must rely on the grace and power of the Holy Spirit to make progress in our imitation of him (see, e.g., 2 Pet. 1:3–11).

How do Christ’s example and the work of grace shape a Christian view of virtues and vices?29 A Christian rendering of temperance, for example, will have to include not only moderating our desire for food for the sake of health and social mores but also religious reasons for fasting and feasting. Likewise, the virtue of courage challenges us to endure suffering for the sake of love, relying on God’s strength, even to the point of martyrdom—a stark contrast to contemporary portraits of brave individuals charging the enemy alone with guns ablaze. Christ teaches us too how gentleness and humility ground righteous anger, enabling us both to turn over tables of injustice and to turn the other cheek.

The tradition eventually singled out seven virtues—three theological virtues (faith, hope, and love) and four cardinal virtues (practical wisdom, justice, courage, and temperance). Everyone who wants to become Christlike must seek to cultivate these qualities of character, whatever his or her culture and calling. Together, the seven virtues yield a holistic picture of human perfection. They cover every aspect of our nature, from our mind to our will to our emotions, and direct them all toward a life of flourishing in relationship with God. According to the Christian tradition, we all need faith, hope, and love, as well as practical wisdom, justice, courage, and temperance, in order to become all God intended us to be as human beings. Of course, courage can be manifested in different ways at different times—on a battlefield or in an emergency room—but no one can hold firmly to the good in the face of pain and difficulty without it. Chastity, a part of temperance, can be fulfilled through marriage, celibacy, or years of singleness, but all are called to order sexual desire in ways that serve love and faithfulness.

In a parallel way, the seven vices depict the traits of character to which we must die. Only when we lay them down and leave them behind can we flourish as people with well-formed character and Christlike virtue.

Why Study the Vices Today?

Other than piquing our historical interest or prompting an internet search for curiosity’s sake, is there good reason to try to recover the traditional Christian view of the vices? I would argue that Christians gain both intellectual and practical payoff—in the way we understand ourselves and our world, and in the way our practices and prayers are reshaped. But for non-Christians as well, the traditional view of the vices has the power to illuminate. This tradition has deeply shaped Western culture. To understand its influence—whether we accept or reject it—is to better understand ourselves. I’ll begin in what follows with several reasons that should appeal to both believers and nonbelievers.

First, the seven vices reveal perennial features of human nature, with its weaknesses and temptations, as reflected in films, literature, theater, music, and art. Studying the vices can help us uncover layers of depth and significance in iconic contemporary stories and culture. Shakespearean characters from Iago to Shylock show us the ugly face of envy and the callousness of greed. Tales from Tolkien’s Mordor to the murder plots in Shakespeare’s Macbeth and modern-day Game of Thrones all depict pride and the lust for power—mirroring the same libido dominandi that St. Augustine identified in Roman culture more than a millennium before. In a lighter but no less malicious vein, the original story line of The Incredibles traded on the envy of superhero sidekick-wannabe Buddy (who later becomes the self-made superhero Syndrome). His character gets revenge by killing off the competition and leveling the playing field, so “when everyone is super, then no one will be.” In the classic fairy tale Snow White, the evil queen shows us how vainglory feeds on pride and envy, the same unholy trinity of vices that Gregory the Great depicted in the sixth century. The queen wants to be the most beautiful, but she needs the mirror to affirm and recognize her status and beauty, and she will destroy the competition to secure first place. On the big screen, Captain Barbossa’s story of the Aztec gold captures the empty restlessness of greed with haunting accuracy in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl.

Find it, we did. There be the chest. Inside be the gold. And we took ’em all! We spent ’em, and traded ’em. And frittered ’em away on drink and food and pleasurable company. The more we gave ’em away, the more we came to realize . . . the drink would not satisfy. Food turned to ash in our mouths. And all the pleasurable company in the world could not slake our lust. We are cursed men. . . . Compelled by greed we were, but now we are consumed by it.30

In fiction, Brideshead Revisited by Evelyn Waugh paints a portrait of the vice of sloth in explicitly religious terms (although narrated by an agnostic character), and the family name Waugh chooses in the novel—Flyte—stands for one of sloth’s most common symptoms, escapism or flight. Long before today’s abundant testimonies of the addictive power of pornography, Alan Paton’s story Too Late the Phalarope offered a haunting case study of the binding and blinding power of lust and its power to destroy human relationships. And Lady Gaga has made a career out of spectacle, taking vainglory as the theme of entire albums and illustrating its extremes in her outrageous costuming.

The vices also offer us a framework for explaining and evaluating common cultural practices. Envy and its offspring vice Schadenfreude—joy at another’s misfortune—go a long way toward explaining the popularity of tabloids that expose and trumpet the cellulite and poor fashion choices of the rich and famous. Reality shows of the makeover variety, which spawned a boom in cosmetic surgery, pay tribute to the power of vainglory and the image-driven advertising industry that feeds it. Action-adventure films’ formula for box-office success depends on the celebration of wrathful revenge in the guise of righteous anger, while prime-time talent shows and political commentary alike trade in contempt. Corporate workaholic culture depends on a secularized notion of sloth and mistakenly glorifies frantic industriousness as its opposing virtue. Modern-day gluttony drives inventions like diet soda, which we can drink guilt-free as we consume ever-expanding portion sizes and supersized menu options. Video games marketed to pre-teens feature avatars with exaggerated, pornified bodily features, warping their imaginations and expectations, while our late-night internet habits drive an appetite for increasingly violent filmic depictions of sex.

Most importantly, however, understanding the vices can yield personal, spiritual rewards. The historical Christian figures treated in this book—Evagrius, Cassian, Theodora, Syncletica, Gregory, Aquinas—offered little overt cultural criticism. Instead, they wrote to instruct others in a well-examined life of intentional Christian discipleship. Aquinas, for example, makes the virtues the key building blocks of a Christian life, while the vices describe our greatest moral and spiritual pitfalls. Becoming holy involves shedding our sinful nature—the vices—and “clothing ourselves” with the character of Christ, the perfect exemplar of virtue.31 The Christian tradition follows the apostle Paul’s old-self/new-self distinction when it describes the transformation of our character from vice to virtue.

You were taught, with regard to your former way of life, to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires; to be made new in the attitude of your minds; and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. (Eph. 4:22–24 NIV)

Put to death, therefore, whatever in you is earthly: fornication, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed (which is idolatry). . . . These are the ways you also once followed, when you were living that life. . . . Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have stripped off the old self with its practices and have clothed yourselves with the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge according to the image of its creator. . . . As God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. . . . Above all, clothe yourselves with love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. (Col. 3:5–14)

In other words, the moral project for a Christian is to die to the old self and rise to new life in Christ. (The word “moral” comes from a Latin root referring to what we have become accustomed to.) Dying and rising—the rhythm of a life of discipleship—names the process by which we grow accustomed to a life more and more like Christ’s. Centuries before the advent of Christianity, Aristotle wrote that virtues and vices describe aspects of our character that become second nature to us. This makes the vices especially apt for describing our old sinful nature, and the virtues, for describing our new nature in Christ. Thus, Christian thinkers from Augustine through Aquinas overwhelmingly adopted the Greek language of virtue and vice to describe the moral life and the development of Christian character.32 Romans 12:1–2 commends transformation into godly character, calling us to turn away from our previous conformity to the patterns of this world, and the rest of the chapter makes clear that this involves both renewed minds and an entire way of life. All these texts instruct us to take off our old nature, described in terms of the vices, and to put on Christlikeness—that is, the virtues. The model of character change as moral and spiritual formation therefore neatly fits the theological idea of transformation from the “old self” into a renewed and sanctified person: a “new self,” re-created by the Spirit in the image of Christ.

In the rhythm of sanctification, we are first invited into the movement of dying. The practice of regular confession enacts the “dying” part of the lifelong turning away from the broken, bitter, selfishly resistant selves we have become. We come as though to the edge of our own graves and renounce our old self with its habits and practices. Yet that renunciation, as a preface to new life, requires knowing our sin. The tradition of the seven vices began with this insight. The desert fathers and mothers first classified the vices within a Christian program of self-examination and spiritual direction in the fourth century. It continued to provide an almost ubiquitous rubric for confession in penitential manuals up until the fifteenth century—an endurance that testifies to its diagnostic power as a spiritual tool for contrition and repentance, renewal and spiritual growth. When we study the vices, we learn to better articulate which parts of our sinful nature we are grappling with and need to put to death. The tradition teaches us to recognize how one vice might variously reveal itself in feelings and actions. With their help, we can use the list of vices to identify networks of sin in our lives and unveil layers of sin of which we were previously unaware. Naming the vices fine-tunes our confession. Rather than praying in general for forgiveness of sin, or reducing all our sin to pride or generic selfishness, we can lay specific sins before God, ask for the grace to root them out, and engage in daily disciplines—both individually and communally—that help us target them. Naming our sins is the confessional counterpart to counting our blessings. Such articulations enrich and refresh our practices of prayer and contrition and lead us to deeper engagement in the spiritual disciplines.

Retrieving the tradition of virtues and vices can also give us fresh eyes and expose new layers of meaning in our reading of Scripture. Before I read Aquinas on sloth, I would have associated this vice with only a few proverbs about sluggards and perhaps also the parable of the talents. A closer study of sloth helped me to see it in the Israelites’ resistance to embracing their new home in the promised land, and in Lot’s wife turning back to the familiarity of Sodom while angels attempted to rescue her. And in Psalm 119 I discovered a model of its remedy. Similarly, understanding the distinction between wrath and righteous anger helps us understand how Jesus integrated justice and love—how he could burn with anger against the Pharisees’ calloused hearts and then forgive those who crucify him. Studying avarice illuminates deeper themes of provision and trust throughout Scripture, from the story of the widow of Zarephath to counsels against worry in Jesus’s Sermon on the Mount. Once we grasp the envy-charity link, we gain new insight into the depths of the brothers’ antipathy toward Joseph, Jacob’s favorite son, and its prophetic resonance in Jesus’s interactions with the religious leaders of his day.

Finally, if we’re able to identify our own sins more accurately, we’ll be better equipped to reflect on and engage with the world around us. What areas of moral complicity or compromise in our own lives are we blithely unaware of? Is our apparent zeal for justice in the political arena really a mask for fear or a wrathful bid for control? What cues might help us unveil the real hearts lying behind our red-hot rhetoric? What can vainglory teach us about our need to present ourselves as Pinterest-perfect and problem-free, even in church? Consider contemporary American culture, torn between relentless workaholism on the one hand and an obsession with maximizing leisure on the other: What compulsions fuel this cultural ethos? Should Christians endorse the limitless pursuit of work as selfless diligence and godly industriousness? Or might they find in these lifestyles evidence of cravings for control, self-sufficiency, and a refusal to depend on and rest in God? Perhaps our drivenness, even more than our pursuit of leisure, is more like vice than virtue.

Perhaps. Human culture and motivations are notoriously difficult to penetrate, even—or especially—when they have become our own. “The heart is deceitful above all things. . . . Who can understand it?” (Jer. 17:9 NIV). Why not, then, avail ourselves of the historical perspective and collective wisdom of the Christian tradition to help us see and know ourselves more truly? The project of becoming like Christ is our life’s most important task. It makes sense to use every resource we can find to help us do it well. The whole story of human sin and failure cannot be told comprehensively by our contemporaries or invented anew by our own imaginations. We should certainly value contemporary reflection and our own insight. But when we seek moral advice, attentiveness to a wider perspective often helps reveal what our myopic view would have missed. When we listen attentively to the experienced, the devout, and the saints and sages of past centuries, we can find wisdom and insight that still lights our way today.

C. S. Lewis once said, “We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea.”33 When we recognize our vices for what they are, we take a first step toward turning to the sea. When we see the drabness of the slum for what it really is, we can countenance preferring a vibrantly beautiful seashore. Once we identify our moral corruption as a muddy puddle we want to leave behind, we are faced with the challenge of re-forming our habits from vice into virtue—first getting our feet sandy and then venturing out far enough to learn to swim. Looking out at the sea, at its vastness, power, and beauty, we inevitably confront our deep need for grace.

Dante Alighieri outlines the same movement in his Divine Comedy. Precisely through practices designed to turn them away from their old habits, sinners are prepared to welcome and live into new life. As they come to grasp the true nature of their offenses, they can be gradually weaned from their distorted desires. This process bears fruit in a joyful life and a loving relationship with God.34

In the next chapter, we trace the history and origins of the list of virtues and the list of vices. This history reveals why the infamous list of seven vices is a distinctively Christian contribution. We will also seek to understand why certain vices made the list, why we are better off calling them “capital” than “deadly,” and what common theme explains their twisted but seductive search for happiness. Most importantly, this intriguing story shows us how self-examination using the vices works within the framework of spiritual formation, and how—centuries later—it can still serve that end for us.

FURTHER REFLECTION

When you look “in the mirror” at your heart, your mind, and your life, what do you see? (We will return to this question in the epilogue.) What aspects of your character have been areas of persistent struggle for you (like the author’s pusillanimity in graduate school)?

How accustomed are you to the language of virtue and vice? Is talk about character formation or spiritual formation a foreign or familiar way to think about the “old self” and the “new self”?

Whom do you envision when you picture Christlike or virtuous character? Who is someone who models Christian “love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony” (Col. 3:14) in your life? Why might it be important in our character formation to have before us a positive vision of a virtuous life?

FURTHER READING

Rebecca K. DeYoung, “Aquinas’s Virtues of Acknowledged Dependence: A New Measure of Greatness,” Faith and Philosophy 21, no. 2 (2004): 214–27. On pusillanimity.

M. Robert Mulholland Jr., Invitation to a Journey: A Road Map for Spiritual Formation (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 1993; expanded ed., 2016).

c70

2 
Gifts from the Desert

The Origins and History of the Vices Tradition

A Short History of the Virtues and Vices

The seven capital vices as we know them today evolved from a tradition—a tradition interwoven with Christian moral reflection, spiritual direction, and pastoral wisdom. No serious study of the vices can afford to ignore its rich insights. Unfortunately, much of the confusion and ignorance (both willful and unintended) that characterizes many contemporary treatments of the vices results from a neglect of the history or an unwillingness to take it seriously. G. K. Chesterton once said, “Defending any of the cardinal virtues has today all the exhilaration of a vice,”1 in part because serious defenses of the virtues, and serious condemnations of the vices, are in terribly short supply. Commenting on a collection of articles on the seven deadly sins in the London Sunday Times by the likes of W. H. Auden and Evelyn Waugh, Henry Fairlie observed that even the editor of the collection found it striking that “in a series of articles such as I am introducing, passionate denunciations and threats of brimstone would be out of place. . . . The mildness with which on the whole [the authors] regard the deadly sins may be thought surprising and significant.”2 If the medieval church took vice way too seriously, current approaches tend to lean too far in the other direction. All that’s left of Christianity in such accounts is, like Dana Carvey’s “church lady” on Saturday Night Live, an amusing caricature.

At the same time, many contemporary sermons and Christian reflections on the sins fail to acknowledge, much less draw on, any ideas about the sins from their own history.3 Centuries of Christian spiritual insight and practice remain invisible, even to their own inheritors. Worse yet, Christians often take a judgmental, moralistic tone that blames and shames others as sinners, like the church lady herself, rather than offering grace-filled models of liberation and new life. If anything the tradition teaches is true, however, then it is true for all of us. We are all a mess. I’ll be the first to confess that this didn’t really register when I was younger. For all the theology of grace I had been taught, my life told the story of someone trying too hard to “have it together” and “be a better person.” But when that project runs us into a dead end, then what? N. T. Wright sums up the options perfectly: “Christians seem to me to divide into two groups nowadays: the first lot [like the culture] don’t think sin matters much anyway, and the second know perfectly well that it does, but still can’t kick the habit.”4

Before considering each individual vice in the following chapters, then, I will seek to remedy the defects of ignoring history or refusing to take seriously what it teaches. With a brief tour of the fourth-century Egyptian desert, we’ll revisit the long tradition of teaching and practice that gave rise to the list of vices. Being explicit about our historical and cultural inheritance can significantly illuminate our own moral predicament. This book’s approach seeks to give due weight both to the historical contexts and traditions in which the vices arose and to the Christian moral and theological categories in which the vices make the most sense.

Ironically, a study of the seven deadly sins might best begin by explaining why “the seven deadly sins” is the wrong label. Why include eight or nine vices on the list at first and then pare down to seven later? Why call them “capital” instead of deadly? And why are they more aptly named “vices” than “sins”?

Contrasting the origins of the lists of virtues and vices will give us a better sense of the fluidity of the number of vices, which also goes some way toward explaining our confused inheritance of it. The seven principal virtues, unlike the list of the seven vices, claim both explicit biblical and weighty philosophical sources. Probably for this reason, the list of virtues fluctuated little over much of its history. The list of three theological virtues—faith, hope, and love—comes from the apostle Paul’s famous hymn of love in 1 Corinthians 13. However, Paul does not use the Greek term for virtue (aretē) to describe faith, hope, and love either in the 1 Corinthians passage or in Colossians 3:14, where love is said to “bind . . . together in perfect harmony” a list of virtue-like qualities, including patience, kindness, gentleness, and so on.

The four cardinal virtues—practical wisdom, justice, courage, and temperance—are mentioned in Wisdom 8:7. This book was likely written for Jews in the Diaspora around 300 BC, the same era that prominently featured four cardinal virtues in Greek philosophical ethics (Plato mentions these four virtues in the Republic already in the fourth century BC, as does Aristotle later, and likewise Cicero, a Stoic). The eighth chapter of the book of Wisdom in the Septuagint does use the Greek term aretē (“excellence”), which the Latin Vulgate translates virtus (“virtue”). Biblical writers, like later church fathers, likely found the classical Greek concept a convenient category for the excellences of moral character they were describing. We shouldn’t find this surprising: all ancient and medieval ethical systems framed questions about morality in terms of the perfection of character or human nature over a lifetime. Such a framework made the virtues—as the building blocks of good character—the central ethical category for more than a millennium of moral thought and practice.

Whatever the ultimate sources of their lists—philosophical or scriptural—the church fathers explicitly endorsed the list of the four cardinal virtues and integrated them into a Christian ethic. Augustine (354–430), for example, did so by reconceptualizing them as forms of love for God. In On the Morals of the Catholic Church, he explains,

I hold that virtue is nothing other than the perfect love of God. Now, when it is said that virtue has a fourfold division, as I understand it, this is said according to the various movements of love. . . . We may, therefore, define these virtues as follows: temperance is love preserving itself entire and incorrupt for God; courage is love readily bearing all things for the sake of God; justice is love serving only God, and therefore ruling well everything else that is subject to the human person; prudence is love discerning well between what helps it toward God and what hinders it.5

By making them all forms of Christian love, Augustine intentionally transformed this philosophical set of four, originally part of a Greek ethic of self-perfection, into Christian virtues dependent on God’s grace.

Given its origins in Christian practice and reflection—not Scripture or Greek philosophy—the list of vices presents a contrast to the list of seven virtues in its variation over several centuries.6 As far as historians can tell, the list of vices was put in writing by Evagrius of Pontus (AD 346–399), one of the desert fathers in the early centuries of the Christian church. The monastic community he joined south of Alexandria, Egypt, deliberately withdrew from a world luring Christians to assimilate to cultural lifestyles glorifying power, wealth, worldly success, and fame. As a first step, the desert fathers and mothers7 imitated the example of Christ by following the Spirit’s leading into the desert to face temptation and sin head-on.8 There they cultivated a contemplative spirit through “purity of heart” and “pure prayer.” Confronting temptation required “discernment,” self-examination, and vigilance (an idea further developed by Ignatius of Loyola in his examen and rules for the discernment of spirits). Evagrius culled wisdom from the oral traditions and disciplines of these ascetics who sought spiritual progress in desert solitude. He set down a list of eight “thoughts” (logismoi) or “suggestions”9 that typically beset the desert hermit: “gluttony, then impurity [i.e., lust], avarice, sadness, anger, acedia [later called sloth], vainglory, and last of all, pride.”10 Evagrius did not always systematically order the vices in his texts, although later authors placed the eight on a continuum from carnal vices to spiritual ones—gluttony, lust, avarice, wrath, sadness, sloth, vainglory, and pride11—through which the monk or nun progressed.12 We can think of Evagrius’s community as a seasoned group of spiritual directors and counselors of the Christian life. After decades of gleaning and dispensing pastoral care, they had likely seen it all. The vice list reads much like a top-ten list of temptations and weaknesses Christians typically and perennially struggle with as they mature in discipleship. Evagrius had a flair for the practical: his interests focused more on describing the guises of the demons and how to fight against them than in developing a comprehensive theoretical system.13 His portrayals of the demons might remind us of C. S. Lewis’s Screwtape Letters. For example, the “noonday demon” of sloth attacks in the heat of midday, appearing to make the sun stand still and the afternoon “fifty hours long,” filling our minds with tempting rationalizations.

This demon drives [the monk] along to desire other places where he can more easily procure life’s necessities, more readily find work and make a real success of himself. He goes on to suggest that, after all, it is not the place that is the basis of pleasing the Lord. God is to be adored everywhere. He joins to those reflections the memory of [the monk’s] dear ones and of his former way of life. He depicts life as stretching out for a long period of time, and brings before the mind’s eye the toil of the ascetic struggle, and, as the saying has it, leaves no leaf unturned to induce the monk to forsake his [desert] cell and drop out of the fight.14

Evagrius’s disciple, John Cassian (360–430), introduced the Western church to the list and its accompanying ascetic practices with his Institutes of the Monastic Life15 and Conferences. From there, knowledge of the set of vices became an institutional standard within the monastic tradition. Cassian’s account of the eight “principal vices” (principia vitia) adapted them from the solitary life of desert monks and nuns to fit communal life in the monastery.16 So, for example, as an antidote to the vice of pride, St. Benedict’s Rule (written in the sixth century) gave monastics positive instruction concerning how to live virtuously with each other. The Rule lists twelve ways to cultivate humility, including the spiritual disciplines of silence and submission to spiritual authorities, all as part of the “common rule of the monastery.”17 Cassian himself sometimes divided the list of vices into a set of six (gluttony, lust, avarice, wrath, sadness, sloth) plus two (vainglory, pride), noting that the last two have the potential to undermine all previous progress against the first six. That is, the typical monastic will want his or her spiritual progress against the first six vices noticed and duly applauded (vainglory), and will likewise be inclined to take too much credit for it (pride). Be aware of such pitfalls, Cassian warns: “Such is the enemy’s clever subtlety that it causes the soldier of Christ, whom he could not overcome with hostile arms, to fall by his own weapons.”18

A few centuries after Evagrius and Cassian, Pope Gregory I (“Gregory the Great,” 540–604) pared down the list of capital vices from eight to seven, the biblical number symbolizing completeness, by subsuming sloth under sadness,19 making envy a standard member, and separating pride out as their root. (Changes are marked in italics in the chart below.)

Evagrius (4th c.)* Cassian (4th/5th c.)† Gregory (6th c.) Aquinas (13th c.) 
1. Gluttony1. Gluttony
Pride = root
Pride = root
2. Lust2. Lust1. Vainglory1. Vainglory
3. Avarice3. Avarice2. Envy2. Envy
4. Sadness4. Wrath‡3. Sadness3. Sloth
5. Anger‡5. Sadness4. Avarice4. Avarice
6. Sloth (Acedia)6. Sloth5. Wrath5. Wrath
7. Vainglory7. Vainglory6. Lust6. Lust
8. Pride8. Pride7. Gluttony7. Gluttony

*Evagrius did not maintain a consistent order for his list. 

†Cassian’s list is the same as Evagrius’s but is ordered from carnal to spiritual.

‡“Anger” and “wrath” translate the same Greek and Latin terms, which also refer to the passion or emotion of anger.

In his Moralia, which became a widely used text for moral and theological reflection throughout at least the next six hundred years, Gregory listed the seven virtues and the seven vices with their progeny, and the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit. Gregory made pride the root of the seven capital vices—a list that still includes vainglory—rather than counting pride as a member of the former list of eight, as Evagrius and Cassian did. He writes,

For the tempting vices, which fight against us in invisible contest on behalf of pride which reigns over them, some of them go first, like captains; others follow, after the manner of an army. . . . For when pride, the queen of sins, has fully possessed a conquered heart, she surrenders it immediately to seven principal sins, as if to some of her generals, to lay it waste. . . . For pride is the root of all evil . . . but seven principal vices, as its first progeny, no doubt spring from this poisonous root: namely vain glory, envy, anger, melancholy, avarice, gluttony, and lust.20

In addition to adopting Cassian’s organic metaphor of root vices and their offshoots, Gregory used the imagery of a spiritual battle; the offspring vices of each capital vice serve as foot soldiers of the generals, with pride as their commander-in-chief.21 Despite their parallel numbers (“sets of sevens”), however, the lists of virtues and vices aren’t correlated, nor were they designed to be. Pride is on the list, but not its opposing virtue, humility; wrath is a vice, but neither gentleness nor patience is on the virtue list; hope and courage are both on the virtue list, but neither despair nor cowardice is on the vice list; temperance is on the virtue list, but it is opposed to gluttony and lust and possibly also anger on the vice list, and so on.

By the thirteenth century, we find Thomas Aquinas (1224/25–74) synthesizing the wisdom of an amazing variety of predecessors in both philosophy and theology. When describing the vices, he quotes everyone from Aristotle, the Neoplatonists, and the Stoics, to Augustine, Gregory the Great, and other church fathers. He defers especially to Gregory’s Moralia as his primary theological source for the definitive lists of seven virtues and vices. Whereas Gregory’s enumerations were from a commentary on Scripture that was widely appreciated for its practical counsel, Aquinas’s descriptions formed a highly systematic and philosophically sophisticated account. As a result, his treatment has a more theoretical and less pastoral feel than Gregory’s does. Nevertheless, his Summa theologiae—written as a curriculum for the instruction of his fellow Dominicans—stands as one of the greatest pieces of moral theology in the Christian tradition. The extensive section on the virtues and vices circulated independently of the rest of the text, and it quickly became the most used part of the Summa in the centuries immediately following Aquinas’s death.22

The vice lists also maintained their practical appeal well beyond the role they played in theological systems and moral treatises. Texts guiding the practices of confession and penance used the set of vices as a rubric. One edition of William Peraldus’s Summa of Virtues and Vices has twenty-seven chapters on the vice of sloth alone!23 (Perhaps it was a test: If you actually read them all, you would know you did not have the vice.) Like other penitential manuals, Peraldus’s work had a clerical rather than an academic audience. He wrote it to aid priests and preachers not only in hearing confessions but also in writing sermons on the sins, as mandated by the Fourth Lateran Council of 1215. By the High Middle Ages, therefore, not only did theologians and clerics know the vices, but laypeople did too. Confessional guides such as Peraldus’s typically listed each of the vices, along with “reasons for shunning the vice, specific vices that spring from it, and remedies for it.”24 The list of vices endured primarily as a practical and pastoral tool, not a theoretical construct. If not for this usefulness, the list might never have attained its popularity and staying power.

Our inheritance of it, however, comes only after several further turns of history. Later scholastics found the list’s unsystematic character dissatisfying, and Reformers found its scriptural basis suspiciously wanting. Aquinas’s own argument to explain why these seven and no others counted as capital sins lacks compelling consistency. Cassian had offered the biblical account of the seven nations of Canaan to be conquered as a metaphorical basis of the sins, but this also seemed inadequate.25 Although they were backed/endorsed by authorities such as Gregory the Great and Peter Lombard (1100–1160), whose Sentences containing the list of vices counted as the theology textbook of the day, the seven vices are not found as a list in Scripture. Thus the list of seven lacked appropriate credibility. As confessional practices of self-examination extended more widely outside the intentional, ascetic communities where the rubric of vices originated and guided daily life, accounts of the moral life changed their emphasis. Meanwhile, other systematically satisfying or directly Scripture-based moral rubrics arose—for example, those based on the Ten Commandments or the fruit of the Spirit (see Exod. 20; Deut. 5; Gal. 6). Furthermore, although clergy continued to use the list of seven for pastoral and confessional purposes, theories of ethics gradually shifted away from an emphasis on virtue and vice and moved toward law and casuistry, obligation and obedience.26

After the Reformation, Protestants worried about “works righteousness” grew increasingly wary of exhortations to practice the virtues. Similarly, their emphasis on justification by faith and grace alone made them suspect of human efforts to purge our lives of the vices.27 How could Protestants appropriate the vices tradition without compromising this essential tenet of Reformation theology? Framing the role of the vices and virtues in terms of the lifelong process of sanctification is the most obvious way. Cultivating virtue requires our effort, to be sure, but every effort we make is empowered by the Holy Spirit, as 2 Peter 1:3–8 states:

His divine power has given us everything we need for a godly life through our knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and goodness. Through these he has given us his very great and precious promises, so that through them you may participate in the divine nature, having escaped the corruption in the world caused by evil desires.

For this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith goodness; and to goodness, knowledge; and to knowledge, self-control; and to self-control, perseverance; and to perseverance, godliness; and to godliness, mutual affection; and to mutual affection, love. For if you possess these qualities in increasing measure, they will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. (NIV, emphasis added)

In recent decades, interest in the spiritual disciplines as lifelong practices of those who seek to “grow in grace” has revived,28 and Protestants have begun to recover an appreciation of spiritual formation. These developments offer a new and fruitful opportunity to bring virtue-and-vice talk back into the Christian life of discipleship—properly embedded, as it was from the beginning, in the context of grace.29 As Evagrius wrote, “As for those who have received from grace the strength for ascetic labors, let them not think that they possess this [strength] from their own power.”30

Encouraging Christians to take spiritual discipline seriously again, Dallas Willard argues,

We are saved by grace of course, and by it alone, and not because we deserve it. That is the basis of God’s acceptance of us. But grace does not mean that sufficient strength and insight will be automatically “infused” into our being in the moment of need. . . . A baseball player who expects to excel in the game without adequate exercise of his body is no more ridiculous than the Christian who hopes to be able to act in the manner of Christ when put to the test without the appropriate exercise in godly living.31

We can “cheapen” grace (Dietrich Bonhoeffer’s term) by doing nothing with it, presumptuously assuming that the Holy Spirit will magically transform us without any intentionality or activity on our part. Writing to Protestants concerned to avoid the pitfalls of works righteousness, Willard notes that when we receive saving or justifying grace, this should be only the beginning, not the finale, of our Christian story.32 Christ gives us his Spirit so that we will grow and mature. Living as a Christian takes discipline and practice, and such activities are not replacing Christ’s saving work but rather are enabled by it.

Lost in Translation

The next chapter of the story of the vices tradition, after the Middle Ages and the Reformation, traces their fate as the Western world continued to move toward modernity. This movement—most obviously manifested in the Enlightenment and the period of increasing industrialization following it—even more radically marginalized the vices. Not only were they abstracted from their place in Christian confessional practices, but they were further purged of their theological context and secularized. David Hume (1711–76) offered a notably modern-sounding list of virtues—“discretion, caution, enterprise, industry, assiduity, frugality, economy, good-sense, prudence, discernment”—and extolled them on the grounds of their social “utility.”33 Likewise, in his treatment of the vices, he recommended restraining vainglory on the grounds that others find it disagreeable.34 Marking his views as a deliberate departure from traditional Christian conceptions, he defined “pride” as “that agreeable impression, which arises in the mind, when the view either of our virtue, beauty, riches or power makes us satisfy’d with ourselves: And . . . by humility I mean the opposite impression. ’Tis evident the former impression is not always vicious, nor the latter virtuous.”35 In the twentieth century, serving as a spokesperson for the triumphs of modern industrialization, Henry Ford interpreted sloth as “idleness,” opposing it to the virtue of industriousness, on the grounds that in work, not in God, “is our sanity, our self-respect, our salvation.” He concludes that “through work and work alone may health, wealth, and happiness inevitably be secured.”36 And several decades after the sexual revolution, William Gass blithely comments, “So what about lust? Let’s compare it with gluttony. That will get us off to a good start. Satisfied lust isn’t fattening. Satisfied lust may mean two people are happy. . . . It improves the skin, all that blood rising to the top like cream. It detenses the limbs so that all one’s aches feel far away and in the past. Common courtship costs. You take one another to dinner, gluttonize, pay up, the heart burns. But lust is easily relieved without any outlay.”37

Like Gass’s riff on lust, many contemporary treatments of the list have lost touch almost entirely with the religious and philosophical traditions behind the seven, and certainly with the notion of sin. As attention to the vices has been recently revived, the list has quickly been reduced to a convenient and catchy rhetorical device for popular books, films, and advertisements, which disregard any claims the vices might have to being a genuine moral or theological problem for human life.

The Capital Vices: Sources of Sin

For the first millennia of their use, then, the seven (or eight) vices structured self-examination practices and catalyzed lifelong spiritual formation. If we still claim interest in that project, either for historical or for practical reasons, it will be worth investigating why these vices, and not others, made the official list. The seven vices are not just any seven bad habits. Nor do they pick out the worst possible or most frequent vices—although some critics mistakenly think this, complaining that surely cruelty and murder should have made the list (as the worst) or drunkenness and lying (as the most frequent).38 The labels for the lists lend a clue as to why these seven were chosen: “capital vices” does not mean the same thing as “deadly sins.”

Each label means something quite different from the other. And each is easily misunderstood. The Latin caput, capitis means “head,” so we might initially assume that “capital” in “capital vice” means the same thing it does in the phrase “capital punishment.” In certain methods of execution, capital punishment decapitates a person and is therefore deadly. In the case of the capital vices, however, “head” indicates not the uppermost bit of human anatomy but rather a source or “fountainhead,” as it were. The tradition singled out the capital vices because they are “source vices,” vices that serve as an ever-bubbling wellspring of many others. Any pollution in that source eventually poisons the land downstream. Cassian called them “principal vices” because they were principia—first principles, deeper origins—of further sins and the damage they leave behind.

To use another picture, more common in the Middle Ages, we can think of pride as the root and trunk of a tree, which extends upward into seven main branches, each of which represents one capital vice. From those vices, in turn, grow many other branches, each of which bears toxic fruit. As late as the thirteenth century, vice trees still appeared in illuminated psalters, a testimony to the power of this image of sin.39 Cassian uses both metaphors: “For a tall and spreading tree of a noxious kind will the more easily be made to wither if the roots on which it depends have first been laid bare or cut; and a pond of water which is dangerous will be dried up at once if the spring and flowing channel which produce it are carefully stopped up.”40 The capital vices name the set of vices that grow out of pride and tend to proliferate additional sin. Thus, in the works of church fathers like Cassian and Gregory the Great, as well as medieval manuals for confession based on them, each vice would be listed along with its “offspring” vices, sprouting out from the main branches.

The tree metaphor yields a picture of moral education in which the goal is to dig down to the problem’s source and to root it out, thereby eliminating the whole host of related vices it nourishes. Moreover, the tree picture suggests that merely pruning the new shoots and twigs at the end of the branches will treat only surface symptoms without addressing the underlying disease that causes them. You can’t successfully treat a polluted area without addressing the sources of pollution continually flowing in from its feeder streams. And you can pick all the fruit you like from a tree: it will just grow more. The “roots and offshoots” picture shows that sin is organic and dynamic. Vice and sin don’t just sit there in an isolated corner of your heart, inert and lifeless. They grow and produce fruit (just as a tree of virtues, rooted in Christ, produces the fruit of the Spirit). If you really want to deal with sin in your life, you will have to cut off its main branches, put an axe to the stump, and grind the root. The tree metaphor therefore encourages people to see certain sins as likely indicators of deeper moral problems and to see their connection to that great original sin, pride.41

The vices are less like a broken arm, which is a local injury that heals in a few weeks, and more like cancer—pervasive, hidden within, hard to treat and eradicate, and for which treatment is difficult and long-term. The desert tradition treats a vice diagnosis seriously, knowing that temporary symptom-relief will not cure what truly ails us.

Deadly Sins or Capital Vices?

As such metaphors imply, the label “capital vices” has a significantly different meaning than its alternative, “the seven deadly sins.” Notice first the difference between “sin” and “vice.” “Sin” has a broader scope, since it can include patterns of sinfulness in our behavior, our fallen condition or nature in general, or, perhaps most commonly, a single act of disobedience—as in, “Did she commit a sin?” The term “vice,” on the other hand, targets something more specific: vices concern deeply ingrained patterns in our character, patterns broader than a single act but narrower than our sinful human condition in general. The category of vice also makes better sense of the link between poisoned fruits, offspring vices, and their seven sources. For example, sixteen vices growing from sloth might appear too overblown an estimate of the damage from a single act of sin (although in certain cases, perhaps not!).42 Such an array of offshoot vices better describes the typical impact on our character made over time by a deeply rooted compulsion at the center of our lives, or a strong desire that drives our ongoing search for happiness.

An even more important difference between the two labels “capital vices” and “deadly sins” lies in the meaning of “deadly.” The “deadliness” of the seven deadly sins refers to the distinction between mortal and venial sins. In Catholic moral theology, mortal sins are so called because they cause spiritual death. They cut us off from God’s grace when we reject the source of our spiritual life, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Aquinas calls this gift of the Holy Spirit’s indwelling the virtue of charity: the love of God and neighbor that is the perfect fulfillment of the law (Matt. 22:37–40; Rom. 13:10). So he defines mortal sins as sins against charity. In this picture, to commit a deadly or mortal sin is to forfeit the grace of the Holy Spirit by rejecting God as our highest good and willfully refusing to put love of God and neighbor first in our actions. Our decision effectively shows that we prefer committing the sin—obtaining whatever good it promises—to having a relationship with God. Venial sins, on the other hand, may dispose us to mortal sin but do not themselves sever our union with God.

Some strands of Protestant theology deny the possibility that anyone can commit mortal sin after receiving saving (justifying) grace. According to the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, once we are justified, nothing can separate us from the love of God (Rom. 8:38–39). Furthermore, if “the wages” of all sin is death (Rom. 6:23), because every sin separates us from God, then the distinction between mortal and venial sin breaks down. Those who hold such beliefs, along with those who deny the traditional Catholic distinction between mortal and venial sin on other grounds, would be more faithful to their own theological commitments by using the label “capital vices.” Ironically, most Protestants (likely out of ignorance of the vices’ history) tend to call them “the seven deadly sins.”

We might also consider other important reasons to prefer the title “capital vices” to “deadly sins.” Aquinas argues that not all acts of these vices are necessarily (or even usually) mortal sins. Many instances of lust and gluttony, for example, seem better explained by weakness or impulsiveness than by an entrenched or willful preference for pleasure over a relationship with God, although they might well tend in that direction over time. Moreover, the conception of the sins as “deadly” does not explain their association with specific offspring vices. From the beginning of the history of the list, the vices were named principia vitia (“principal vices”) and enumerated together with predictably characteristic progeny. Again, here is Cassian:

And though these [offspring vices] are far more numerous than the virtues are, yet if those eight principal sins, from which we know that these naturally proceed, are first overcome, all these at once sink down, and are destroyed together with them with a lasting destruction. For from gluttony proceed surfeiting and drunkenness. From fornication filthy conversation, scurrility, buffoonery and foolish talking. From covetousness, lying, deceit, theft, perjury, the desire of filthy lucre, false witness, violence, inhumanity, and greed. From anger, murders, clamour and indignation. From dejection, rancor, cowardice, bitterness, despair. From accidie, laziness, sleepiness, rudeness, restlessness, wandering about, instability both of mind and body, chattering, inquisitiveness. From vainglory, contention, heresies, boasting and confidence in novelties. From pride, contempt, envy, disobedience, blasphemy, murmuring, backbiting.43

Aquinas, in turn, offers a detailed explanation of the name “capital vices,” the only label he uses to describe the list of seven. The list guided practice for centuries before medieval theology articulated the distinction between mortal and venial sin and applied the label “deadly.” For all these reasons, then, regardless of whether we accept the category of mortal sin, “capital vices” counts as the best label for the great list of seven.

The List of Seven

What are the individual capital vices? As we know from their history, even early sources disagreed about this (as well as their proper order). The original Evagrian list consisted of eight members. “All the generic types of [evil] thoughts fall into eight categories in which every sort of thought is included. First is that of gluttony, then fornication [or lust], third avarice, fourth sadness, fifth anger, sixth acedia [or sloth], seventh vainglory, eighth pride.”44 In his systematization of the wisdom of the desert fathers, Cassian says, “There are eight principal faults which attack [human]kind; viz., first gastrimargia, which means gluttony, secondly fornication, thirdly philargyria, i.e., avarice or the love of money, fourthly anger, fifthly dejection, sixthly acedia, i.e., listlessness or low spirits, seventhly cenodoxia, i.e., boasting or vain glory, and eighthly pride.”45 (Envy, the only vice missing from these early lists, is added later.)

We have seen that Gregory pared down the list to seven by designating pride, traditionally understood as the original sin, as the originator or root of all other vices.46 Even Gregory’s authority, however, did not finally settle the issue of whether pride was the root of the seven other sins or itself a member of the list. Most recent versions of the seven, for example, include pride rather than vainglory. Perhaps this is because the difference between them is not easy to see, on first glance, and vainglory is the less familiar term of the two. This book will follow the Gregorian tradition and give pride a role as the source of the seven vices. In one sense this includes the best of both traditions, since making pride the root of the seven “source” vices implicitly counts it as a source vice itself, just a more ultimate one. I will also, however, replace Gregorian sadness with sloth, following Aquinas, who casts sloth as a specific kind of sorrow.47 The list of seven used here thus includes vainglory, along with envy, sloth, avarice, wrath, gluttony, and lust, as well as pride, which is their root.

Since the following chapters of the book give each vice an extended treatment, I will not describe each of them here. For now, we should keep in mind that the list of seven vices does not directly correspond to the seven principal virtues—faith, hope, charity, practical wisdom, justice, courage, and temperance. Historically, we nonetheless observe attempts to pair the vices with a list of opposing virtues. For example, in Prudentius’s Psychomachia, anger is overcome by patience, pride by humility, lust by chastity, and so on.48 It’s easy to see what motivated the shift to seven vices, given the widespread standardization of a larger system of “sevens,” which includes the seven virtues, the seven petitions of the Lord’s Prayer, the seven beatitudes, the seven corporal and spiritual works of mercy,49 the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit (Isa. 11:1–3), and so on.

In his Summa theologiae, by contrast, Aquinas follows the Aristotelian pattern of opposing each virtue to its own pair of vices. Every virtue, in his account, lies on a continuum between two opposing vices, one on each extreme.50 Generosity, for example, is a virtue characterized by a love of giving and an appropriate freedom from attachment to money. Avarice or stinginess, on the one extreme, names an excessive attachment to money, so that we hoard money for ourselves rather than giving it away when we ought. On the other extreme is the vice of deficiency—prodigality—a habit of not being attached enough to money, to the point of carelessness and wastefulness. The virtue, therefore, lies somewhere between the two extremes, in what philosophers (following Aristotle) call “the golden mean.” Because Aquinas organizes his Summa theologiae around the seven virtues and his structure requires more than seven opposing vices, it is difficult for him to retain much sense of the order or importance of the traditional seven. In the Disputed Questions on Evil, however, he adopts both the Gregorian list and order and does not oppose each vice to a particular virtue.51 So, for example, avarice in this work is not opposed to the virtue of generosity (as just described) but instead is considered an offense against justice.

We should not be surprised that the vices list (and the virtues paired with it) isn’t more systematically ordered or standardized, given its roots in the practical experience of spiritual counsel and formation. This history explains why later attempts at formulas or systematic approaches to the list of seven sometimes appear discordant with each other or come across as creative reasons for already existing practices. What still needs explaining, given this backstory, is why and how the list had the extraordinary staying power it did.

Glittering Vices: The Misguided Pursuit of Happiness

Aquinas’s formulation in the Summa clearly reveals the goods at stake in the case of each vice. A glance at the virtues with which he associates the seven vices yields the following conclusions: charity is about love of God and neighbor, while sloth and envy oppose and undercut this; justice and generosity concern money, possessions, and security, while avarice craves and pursues them excessively; magnanimity regards honor and respect, while vainglory is the twisted pursuit of them; and temperance targets pleasures associated with eating, drinking, and sexual activity, while lust and gluttony, each in their own way, seek these goods in increasing measure and for immediate self-gratification. In other words, Richard Foster’s book on three great temptations—Money, Sex, and Power—about sums up sin for most of us.52

Why count these seven as the main sources and most fruitful of the vices? Aquinas explains that they aim at things that most attract human beings, the goods we most long to possess.53 Because each good on the list above holds a close affinity to human fulfillment, we find ourselves perennially tempted to substitute them for true fulfillment as the goal of our lives. The vices offer subtle and deceptive imitations of the fullness of the human good, which we often simply call “happiness.” Lust offers pleasure; avarice promises self-sufficiency; envy and vainglory offer to secure our worth and approval; sloth beckons with comfort; wrath clings to control; pride prizes status, superiority, and power. In the words of one contemporary author, “The simplest definition of an addiction is anything we use to fill the empty place inside of us that belongs to God alone.”54 Augustine too refers to this substitute-fulfillment pattern of sin in his Confessions: “My sin was this, that I looked for pleasure, beauty, and truth not in [God] but in myself and in his other creatures, and the search led me instead to pain, confusion, and error.”55

The vices exercise such attractive power because they parody happiness so well. The goods they promise look so much like true human perfection to us. As Augustine says, “Specious vices have a flawed reflection of beauty.”56 They offer an easy shortcut and a recipe for self-made satisfaction. In a twisted way, our pursuit of the vices shows us attempting to attain goods like love and friendship, provision and security, recognition and approval, comfort and pleasure, status and worth, all by ourselves (and, often, all for ourselves).

When vices distort our character, we seek these goods—and they are genuinely good things—in a misguided or even idolatrous manner: in the wrong way, at the wrong times and wrong places, too intensely, or at the expense of other things of greater value. That’s what makes the vices evil. Our values are misaligned—or, to use Aquinas’s Augustinian terms, our loves are “disordered.” Our desire for and pursuit of these goods does not respect the right ordering of real value. When children grab fistfuls of cookies off the serving plate at a party, their desire for the pleasure of sweets trumps consideration of others (or their own health). Love of pleasure trumps love of neighbor. Yet most of us would concede that food and pleasure are genuine goods, in their due place and appropriately sought. When an employee exaggerates his achievements to make himself look good to his coworkers, he values the approval of others more than truth or trust. The respect and acceptance of others is a genuine good within human social relationships. His pursuit of it goes awry, though, when he is willing to deceive others and subvert other goods in order to achieve it (or a semblance of it).

Ultimately, Augustine and Aquinas note, the vices name our pursuit of finite, created things in place of the goodness of God, our Creator. We were made for union with an infinitely good God. No wonder lesser goods fail to satisfy. Such a dynamic explains why the vices most often lead us to excessive desire: we keep going back for more when created things don’t fulfill us. But too much of a good thing isn’t good for us. When good things are wrongly pursued, sin happens. And when sin accumulates, our character becomes warped and misshapen as well.

A New Look at the Seven Deadly Sins

After all the twists and turns of history, all the disputes over which vices are on the list and why, and all the wrangling between religious and nonreligious conceptions of the vices, the list of seven is still with us—in popular culture as well as in academic and pastoral contexts. What explains the vices’ abiding power to captivate the human imagination? Why do people continue to be fascinated by them?

My answer—based on my own experience of pusillanimity years ago and confirmed by the reactions of those I teach today—is simple: the list maintains its appeal because the vices powerfully articulate distortions of deeply human desires. We see them in ourselves, in our own hearts, and in our own broken lives. As the ancient philosophical schools understood, and as our contemporary therapeutic culture also knows, humans seem to yearn to understand themselves better. We want to understand what makes us tick so that we can live more wisely, more worthily, and with more peace. Ancient and medieval philosophers sought this sort of self-knowledge as part of the ethical life, as the inscription at Delphi—“know thyself”—tells us. The quest for moral and spiritual self-understanding, likewise, powered the mission of Christian thinkers from Evagrius to Aquinas, all of whom dedicated their lives to the “care of souls.”57 Contemporary fascinations with the self might at times be more shallow or self-absorbed, but they strain to illuminate something about ourselves we did not see before, sometimes prompted by a vague sense that something deeper is wrong with us. And they are still ostensibly oriented toward self-improvement of some sort or another. Given the ubiquity of this basic human instinct, the tradition of vices serves as a rich and still relevant frame for better understanding ourselves and our motivations today.

A profounder understanding of the disorder within us yields one further reason to retrieve the vices’ tradition and history: the list developed in a community of Christians whose daily practices and spiritual progress depended on the grace of God. They teach us that identifying and struggling against vice cannot work as a purely human endeavor. Neither will it be successful as an individualistic self-help program. Instead, our pursuit of self-knowledge through studying the vices needs the graced and disciplined formation of the body of believers who together seek to become more and more like Jesus Christ. Like Cassian’s monks, self-knowledge is best sought in this way and for this end:

Looking at [their struggles] as in a mirror and having been taught the causes of and the remedies for the vices by which they are troubled, they will also learn about future contests before they occur, and they will be instructed as to how they should watch out for them, meet them, and fight against them.

As is the case with the most skilled physicians, who not only heal present ills but also confront future ones with shrewd expertise and forestall them with prescriptions and salutary potions, so also these true physicians of souls destroy, with a spiritual conference as with some heavenly medicine, maladies of the heart just as they are about to emerge, not allowing them to grow in the minds of young men but disclosing to them both the causes of the passions that threaten them and the means of acquiring health.58

For the next seven chapters, we will examine each of the capital vices in turn, expecting that as we learn about them, we will also learn about ourselves. Ideally, looking at our character in the mirror offered by the Christian tradition will better enable us, as Cassian intends, to make progress in spiritual formation and, by grace, to turn from vice to greater virtue.

FURTHER REFLECTION

Reflecting on our hopes and dreams as well as our strongest emotions (especially intensely negative ones, such as fear, disappointment, grief, anger, and despair) is a good way to identify excessive attachments. Try using that test as a diagnostic tool for your own patterns of vice and pride. Which good things do you turn to as happiness substitutes?

Which vice (or vices) do you think your community or culture fosters most? In these cases, does that make your personal struggle with this vice more difficult? Do you have other role models who help you practice ways to resist it?

Find a film, novel, TV show, advertisement, or song that exemplifies each vice. Which one was the easiest to find examples of? Spend a day or a week being alert to the prevalence of this pattern of disordered love. What fruit is it bearing?

FURTHER READING

Henri Nouwen, The Way of the Heart: Connecting with God through Prayer, Wisdom, and Silence (New York: Seabury, 1981; repr., New York: Ballantine, 2003).

The Sayings of the Fathers: The Alphabetical Collection, trans. Benedicta Ward, SLG (Kalamazoo, MI: Cistercian Publications/Liturgical Press, 1975).

cCP

3 
Vainglory

Image Is Everything

I lust after recognition, I am desperate to win all the little merit badges and trinkets of my profession, and I am of less real use in this world than any good cleaning lady.

—Garrison Keillor, Christian Century

Glory is fleeting, but obscurity is forever.

—Napoleon Bonaparte

Aptly enough, the vice of vainglory enjoys a good reputation in contemporary culture. Every waiting room in America stocks a shelf of magazines dedicated to the cult of “beautiful people.” They captivate our imagination, and in return we offer them our adulation, striving to emulate their looks and lifestyles. Advertising and social media feed on and foster vainglorious impulses in us from an early age: we learn about cool fashion and foods by watching TV, teens dream of having YouTube channels with enough views to garner fame (and with it, corporate sponsors), and adults project their successful professional selves and profile pictures on LinkedIn and Facebook. But vainglory also shows up in church. Worship leaders and pastors stand in the spotlight, worried that their culturally formed congregations will come expecting a polished performance. For people in the public eye, and the rest of us too, maintaining an image with the right approval ratings is a way of life, even a respectable profession. Even if we don’t take too many selfies, we can find ourselves wanting to be (or to be seen as) what the band R.E.M. once called “Shiny Happy People.”

When I ask my students to name a celebrity, they can instantly rattle off a list of twenty. When I ask them to say who their personal heroes are, they respond with puzzled silence and furrowed brows. After they think about it awhile, a few name their grandparents (or parents, or a youth pastor or mentor) as the people they admire or want to be like. But even in the next town over, nobody knows the names of these heroes; none of them have made a splash in the national news. When we compare what celebrities are renowned for and what our heroes are admired for, we typically find a chasm between the two—people whose glory far outstrips the value of the goods for which they receive it and people whose worth far outstrips any glory they will ever receive. Pondering that gap shines a spotlight on the vice of vainglory.

We don’t have to be famous to embrace the goal of being well known and well liked, publicly approved of and applauded. To wrestle with the vice of vainglory therefore requires reflection on how much the desire for attention and acclaim can dominate—and damage—our lives.

Vainglory by Any Other Name . . .

Most of us will immediately recognize this vice. Perhaps we will even find it painfully familiar, despite having never heard its rather archaic name before. Vainglory is the excessive and disordered desire for recognition and approval from others. Whether or not we are successful in gaining this approval, we all know what it is like to desire recognition for ourselves or our accomplishments. A deep part of us longs to be known and approved of, and to have this publicly acknowledged. Take, for example, a stay-at-home parent’s mundane toil, or a missionary’s lonely years of faithfulness abroad, or the support staff of a prominent business or political leader. Most of their labor is invisible to others. Sometimes it doesn’t even get counted as work—as in, “Do you work or do you just stay home with the kids?” They may find their efforts significant and their commitments worthwhile but still feel like they are the only ones who ever acknowledge that. That being invisible and taken for granted is painful to them bears witness to the human need to be seen and affirmed. A child on the playground shouts to his parent, “Look at me!”; a quiet hug from a friend says she’s glad that you’ve remembered her birthday; an inmate longs to be remembered and called by his first name; a nursing-home resident lights up when she has a visitor to listen to her stories. In view of such examples, Aquinas observes: “It seems to belong to a natural appetite that one wish one’s goodness to become known.” Moreover, he argues, “we can rightly . . . desire to please other human beings.”1 But this desire so easily goes askew. The flattery of others, writes William Ian Miller, is “narcotic and addicting. It preys on two desperate and inescapable desires: to be thought well of by others and to think well of ourselves. . . . We desire and need approbation so badly that we seem more than willing to accept counterfeit coinage as real.”2

When caught in the vice of vainglory, we want acclaim too much—so much, in fact, that we will accept it whether or not we deserve it. Home, school, the athletic field, the workplace, even church: there seems to be no shortage of places offering abundant temptations to vainglory. On the other hand, as the early church fathers pointed out, we are vulnerable to vainglory perhaps especially when we have virtue and good character, for this vice continues to haunt us whether our virtue goes viral or our well-deserved worthiness is overlooked by others.

In his Confessions, Augustine tells a famous story about his teenage years. One night he and some friends were hanging out with not enough to do. They decided to steal pears from a neighbor. Since they neither needed nor even wanted the pears—they ended up throwing them all to the pigs—they stole them just for the fun of it. Reflecting later on his crime, Augustine ponders what fueled his desire to sin. In a crucial part of his confession, he notes that he would not have done it alone. He wanted to impress his friends. “As soon as the words are spoken, ‘Let’s go and do it,’” he confesses, “one is ashamed not to be shameless.”3 The same desire for approval and the corresponding fear of shame drove Augustine to excel in school and become an accomplished rhetorician. Even then, however, he cared more that his speeches in the law courts had the proper style and erudition to win him applause than that they conveyed truth or brought justice for the human lives that hung in the balance.4

Vainglory has similar forms today.5 For example, we find it difficult to imagine someone who has never exaggerated something she has done or made up something about herself to impress those listening. Or perhaps we tell a witty tale, sharing something bad or false about another person, to get our friends to see how funny or entertaining we are. Or we do something good and anticipate that others will notice it (perhaps even because we anticipate that others will notice). Or on the flip side, we do something good that others did not notice, and we feel disappointed. We may even do something wrong, illegal, or foolish because we want attention from a certain crowd. Many of us habitually stretch or streamline the truth to seem better than we are or to avoid criticism. Others of us worry about a performance or task because we feel overly concerned about gaining the approval of those judging it. We invest ourselves in building a reputation based on shallow, trivial things. Or we do something good, get attention for it, and then take all the credit for ourselves, without the slightest nod to mentors, supporters, or God, the Giver of all good and perfect gifts. We may not know these things under the name “vainglory,” but our lives remain a glaring illustration of this vice.

Vainglory and Its Vicious Cousins

As familiar as these examples of vainglory may be, we can’t properly diagnose our struggle with vainglory unless we understand how it names a reality distinct from a host of other related vices. So let’s first do a bit of sorting.

Vainglory is easily confused with pride, the root of all the vices. Especially because they often compete for a single place on the list of the seven deadly sins, these two vices tend to be conflated. Evagrius and Cassian considered pride and vainglory major vices on their lists of eight. Later, Gregory the Great and Thomas Aquinas included vainglory in their canonical lists of seven but rooted those seven branches in pride as the ultimate source of them all. Contemporary lists, however, typically include pride among the seven and fail even to mention vainglory. A 20/20 television series on the seven deadly sins counted pride as a member of the list but defined it as “vanity,” confusing the desire for preeminence with the desire to have that preeminence displayed to others. The Seven Deadly Sins board game names “vanity” as a member of the list but associates it, somewhat confusingly, with both the recent cosmetic surgery boom (which fits vainglory) and the color purple (which is traditionally related to pride).6 We will follow the early Christian tradition and leave vainglory on the list, because it seems right to include the desire for honor and glory, recognition and approval, among the great temptations of the human heart.

We might also easily confuse vainglory and pride because they both count as “spiritual” vices—that is, vices with a spiritual rather than a bodily good as the object of their disordered love. Their objects of love further indicate their close connection. Pride excessively concerns excellence itself (i.e., my excelling others); vainglory, by contrast, concerns primarily the display or manifestation of my excellence.7 If that weren’t enough to complicate their relationship, pride-vainglory “hybrid” cases may be the most common way these vices show up in our lives. Like Gaston in Beauty and the Beast, even if we think we are the best or most deserving guy in town, we also want our excellence acknowledged (in a rousing song by townspeople in the local pub, perhaps). Contrast that with cases of each vice in isolation. A solely prideful person, who is not vainglorious, thinks himself so superior to others that seeking their good opinion of him lies beneath him. Think of the highbrow Mr. Darcy in the early chapters of Pride and Prejudice. A solely vainglorious person, who is not prideful, would do anything for a little limelight, even if it meant she had to stoop a little lower to get her share of sensational notice. Think of the flashy but fabricated publications of Professor Gilderoy Lockhart in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. For most of us, most of the time, however, the two vices come as a package. Our life’s adventures are more satisfying when filmed and shared, just as our child’s spot on an elite sports team or our own completion of a road race warrants a sticker on the back window of our SUV. More mundanely, we often feel a bit flat if we have a really productive day at work but no one to tell about it.

What makes vainglory distinct from pride, then, is love of “the show.” Prideful people want superior status more than anything else. They value being “number one,” to the point of seeking greatness in ways that appropriately belong only to God. The vainglorious, on the other hand, seek whatever will bring in the most attention and applause, whether it is excellent and deserving or not. Pride names the desire for genuinely exalted status; vainglory, a desire for recognition, publicity, and acclaim. If we had a chance to possess some outstanding quality, say, but knew that it would remain hidden, the prideful would be tempted, but the glory-lovers would walk away. The goal of the vainglorious is to win others’ notice, to have people nod and smile approvingly when they walk by. Pushed to its limits, vainglory disposes us to be more concerned with our reputation (what others think about us) than with what we really are. For the vainglorious, image is everything.

“Glory” can be a tricky word for us. Some Christians understand it as something that can rightly be given only to God. In one sense of the word, they are correct, because all goodness ultimately has its source in him. In the Christian tradition, however, the term “glory” more broadly marks anything good that’s shown and made known. Glory, according to Aquinas, is simply goodness made manifest.8 For example, Psalm 8 uses “glory” in both senses—the glory due to God and the glory that human beings have. Common usage attributes glory to other created things as well. We aptly call a beautiful sunset over Lake Michigan or a breathtaking mountain view “glorious.” Human feats and qualities can also be glorious, like an athletic achievement or a virtuosic musical performance. Used broadly, glory means any goodness that, when displayed, garners our notice and appreciation.

In Aquinas’s account, glory also differs from honor.9 The prideful person’s excessive desire for excellence can initially be difficult to distinguish from an excessive desire for honor or glory, because our ordinary uses of the terms overlap. Aquinas distinguishes them this way: excellence (having some superior quality) makes someone worthy of and apt to receive honor (respect and esteem from good judges), and the natural result of being thus honored is glory, “for the reason a person loves to be honored and praised is that [s]he thinks thereby to acquire a certain renown in the knowledge of others.”10 Imagine your excellent athletic win on the track garnering all-conference honors: that’s the reason the news publicizes the story and publishes your picture with it, so now everyone knows and lauds you. Vice creeps in when we take innocent cases of well-earned worthiness and push them to extremes.

This trio of desirable goods can also be teased apart, though. Unlike the vainglorious, those craving honor seek it not from just anyone, but rather from those with the requisite taste or expertise. Like the prideful, who often have a good eye for genuine excellence, the honor-seeker often has better taste in friends than those with vainglory—she wants the honor and esteem of the “right people.” When excessive, this desire inclines us to seek honor over other, more deserving goods. The high-achieving student values and seeks to win the esteem of her teachers, of the National Honor Society, or of the college board administering the SAT. But she must avoid making that honor more important than the education for which she earned it; she must not seek high marks purely for prestige. Vainglory, by contrast, merely inclines us to seek a big round of applause from anyone willing to watch. Vainglory also contrasts with pride: the proud person wants to be the director of the best show ever produced, and the honor-seeker desires rave reviews crediting her work as director from a certain circle of critics, but the glory-lover will happily sink to new depths of shocking spectacle as long as ratings will be high. Neither excellence nor honor nor glory is itself a bad thing. Their connections, however, illuminate the signature spiritual dangers afoot: our initial pursuit of something genuinely good for the right reasons can spin, spiral, and slide into vice. Like excellent athletes who turn to steroid use, or gifted scholars or pastors who plagiarize as their career advances, those who initially love and achieve good things through genuine effort can edge toward vainglory as the pressure mounts. As they find it harder and harder to meet expectations of continued greatness from their admiring audiences, and as they get attached to regular recognition from their successes, they also find they can’t let go of the acclaim they’ve won. Vainglory now tempts them to maintain their good name through falsity.

Rather than wanting excessively to be superior, like the prideful, or seeking excessively to be honored for our notable achievements, in vainglory we seek mainly the “manifestation of excellence.” That is, we want more than anything to be well and widely known. The name of this vice aptly includes the term “glory,” for glorious display is the end sought by those with this vice.11 It’s all about the show. The vainglorious primarily desire attention, approval, and applause—preferably for all to see.

What Is Worthy of Glory?

Vainglory pinpoints not just any glory-seeking, of course, but rather its disordered form. Glory-seeking goes awry in many ways, but the name “vainglory” spotlights ways that are vain or empty. Lady Gaga—herself a self-proclaimed “master of the art of fame”—parodies stardom and its baggage in songs like “Paparazzi” and “Starstruck” on her early album The Fame, even as she illustrates its contemporary excesses in her own elaborately costumed public appearances. Celebrities seek and receive glory not (or at least not only) for genuine talent but also for red-carpet appearances at award ceremonies, covered in excruciating detail by the media. Stadiums herald athletes with fireworks and flag-waving at the start of a game. Closer to home, people glory in more mundane matters: the greenest lawn, the flattering cut of a new dress or suit, the cleanliness of the kitchen, a successful diet, possessions that signal social status, or (in my community, which touts frugality as a virtue) the most effective use of cost-saving coupons. Do we choose our wardrobe for comfort and function, or for styles that will elicit attention and affirmation from those who see us—often at the cost of comfort and function? Worse yet, are we sometimes willing to “fake it till we make it”? Celebrity status aside, faking it might mean having a house we can’t afford, an embellished résumé, or the hair color of someone half our age.

Swept away by a desire to be thought well of, the vainglorious neglect questions like these: How much do these things really matter? To what lengths should we go to impress? Whose approval should we desire most, and why?

In the film The Greatest Showman, P. T. Barnum poignantly considers what remains in the rubble of his life when the allure of fame fades away. After spending too many years chasing glory, he acknowledges the dark side of this pursuit. Returning to his senses and to his family, he promises them that “from now on / These eyes will not be blinded by the lights.”12

In contemporary Western life, the cosmetic and fashion industries make billions in profits every year capitalizing on our weakness for vainglory. But make no mistake: this vice does not plague only women. It’s also behind the tendency to define ourselves by the expensive sports cars we own, to enjoy the reputation earned by lucrative jobs with important titles, and to bolster our masculine credibility with swaggering locker-room talk that echoes Augustine’s confession:

Among my peer group, I was ashamed not to be equally guilty of shameful behavior when I heard them boasting of their sexual exploits. Their pride was the more aggressive, the more debauched their acts were; they derived pleasure not merely from the lust of the act but also from the admiration it evoked. . . . I went deeper into vice to avoid being despised, and when there was no act by admitting to which I could rival my depraved companions, I used to pretend that I had done things I had not done at all, so that my innocence should not lead my companions to scorn my lack of courage, and lest my chastity be taken as a mark of inferiority.13

Why does the typical description of our past athletic exploits smack more of fiction than fact? Empty of real substance, we vaingloriously revel in half-truths and the latest fleeting fad. Good looks and athleticism fade quickly with age, the fashions of the day have an arbitrariness that defies reason, career titles are pretentiously euphemistic, and a perfectly decorated, perfectly clean house does not make a home. Yet the vainglorious pursue these things as if their personal worth and happiness depended on them. Saturated with savvy marketing, the present advertising culture runs on glory-driven fuel and encourages us to run on its fumes. If we step back for a moment, we might find it disconcerting to think how much of our lives we spend keeping up appearances to impress lots of other people for qualities that we don’t have or that don’t really matter.

Soli Deo Gloria

Aquinas opposes vainglory to the virtue he calls “magnanimity”—a virtue that, like vainglory, is unfamiliar to most contemporary people.14 Magnanimous people stretch themselves to inspiring acts of virtue as something to which God has called them. Their achievements genuinely deserve honor and turn our thoughts to the glory of God because they obviously aren’t something anyone could have done without grace. Magnanimous people are luminous, alight with God’s beauty and goodness.15 Their works draw attention to that glory, a glory that outshines the person and his or her act. When we witness such transcendent greatness, we are ushered with wordless gratitude into the cathedral of God’s presence in human action. Victor Hugo’s Les Misérables shows us two characters whose lives are marked by magnanimity: first the bishop, who expectedly and graciously pardons Jean Valjean, and then from that moment of grace onward, Jean, who sacrificially cares for others. Acts of this virtue, whether public or private, large or small, inspire not empty glory but genuine awe. A magnanimous action may be something great in the world’s eyes (e.g., a heroic deed, a life of philanthropy, a gift of compassion), or it may be something that would puzzle the paparazzi (e.g., an act of grace, sacrifice, or forgiveness born of great suffering; or Mary’s quiet fiat at the annunciation [see Luke 1:26–38]; or Mother Teresa’s famous counsel to “do little things with great love”). Magnanimous virtue stretches human power to its limits and beyond. It gives us “city shining on a hill” moments, in which we glimpse graced obedience and shalom breaking through darkness like the dawn. The vainglorious, by comparison, labor for the artificial illumination of the limelight and the canned applause of a sitcom audience. They achieve only the shallow veneer of magnanimity’s true substance. Vainglory gives us an ephemeral high instead of the substantial reward of virtue.

The contrast with magnanimity makes clearer what’s wrong with vainglory: not the goodness of glory itself nor the goods of excellence and honor themselves. Every year at our college’s graduation ceremony, after the last student sits down with diploma in hand, the president invites the audience to congratulate the graduates. Parents and friends surrounding the graduates respond by celebrating with a thunderously joyful noise—including cheers, bleacher-pounding, and applause with a standing ovation. The graduates have worked hard to achieve excellence; they have received high marks and earned respect from the faculty, and at the end of their four years, the faculty and family who love them and encouraged them along the way take delight in publicly recognizing their accomplishments with great pomp and circumstance, much clapping and cheering, heartfelt joy, and even tears. We call pride and vainglory vices because they disorder our pursuits of good things. We veer off course in vainglory not because we have the human need for recognition and approval but because of the excessive and empty ways we seek to satisfy this desire. The glory itself isn’t the main problem; it’s the vanity of how we seek it and what we seek to find it in.

In a pattern fitting many vices, vainglory’s disorder consists either in desiring glory for the wrong objects or in the wrong manner or for the wrong end. Worse yet, we can seek glory in several disordered ways all at once.

In the first category of cases—desiring glory for an inappropriate object—our glory-seeking is focused on “vain things,” where “vain” literally means “empty of glory.” The vainglorious can seek recognition and approval for evanescent or superficial goods—things not worth much glory in general (e.g., a fancy manicure or cool haircut) or things that garner acclaim now but aren’t worth much from an eternal perspective (e.g., socially respectable worldly goods, such as a prestigious job or an Ivy League degree). They might even seek glory for qualities they do not actually have. Fakery must be the emptiest sort of glory-seeking possible, for in it we glory in nothing but the appearance or outward pretense of goodness. Sometimes we even seek glory for evil things—as rebels, revered mafiosi, or extreme risk-takers. Like adolescents building credibility with peers by defying authority, or Augustine bragging about his sexual exploits (real or invented) among his friends, this type of vainglory might well earn us the label “notorious vainglorious.” When we seek empty glory, even evil things can win us the right kind of credibility with the wrong kind of crowd.

In the second category of cases—seeking admiration in inappropriate ways—the desire for glory turns excessive because we want approval and applause so badly that we will do whatever it takes to get it, even if that means misusing otherwise good things or misleading others. For instance, we might gain glory through illicit means or deceive others into giving us undeserved approval. Whether or not the object of our desire is worth the glory we receive for it, the manner of our pursuit or desire for it is excessive, inappropriate, and disordered. This sort of glory-seeker may be an employee who blames her boss for her own incompetence in hopes of gaining the acceptance of her coworkers. Or it could be a student who cheats on a test to get a better grade and win the approval of his parents or teachers. Dating and romance often deal cheaply with the truth in exchange for affirmation and enhanced attractive power. Even a polished musical performance in a religious service could provide “cover” for compliment-seeking or reputation-building motives when disguised as worship. When it’s not what we are offering but how we are “offering” it that’s problematic, vainglory can toxically mix our motives, tempting us away from sincerity, in church and anywhere else.16

Glory-seeking also gets twisted when problems arise with the audience from whom we desire glory, although this symptom often tends to signal (and overlap with) problems covered by the first two types. Which audiences we seek approval and applause from yields telltale clues about our motives. For example, it might be perfectly appropriate to share a compliment you received for a good day’s work with your spouse, but the same sharing would be suspect if you frequently post lists of your accomplishments or accolades on social media for a thousand other friends. Cassian notes that we can even play to a fictional audience envisioned in our own minds.17 Retreating to the desert away from the public eye could therefore offer no guarantee that you could beat vainglory. If real applause is not available, why not manufacture some (and rehearse and replay it) in your imagination?

The worst sort of vainglory, however, according to Aquinas and others, occurs when we fail to give due glory to God as the source of our good.18 We might call this glorying “in vain,” because in such cases we seek glory for the wrong end, aim, or purpose. Glory-seekers of this type fail to recognize their role as recipients and stewards of the good things they have rather than as their ultimate source. Their glory is not exclusively their own but must be directed beyond themselves to God.

It’s worth exploring this last form of vainglory further, since it tends to arise when people receive glory for things that genuinely deserve glory and still find themselves entangled in disordered desire. Moreover, everyone from Cassian to Aquinas tags this form of vainglory as the most morally serious kind. When they receive renown and praise from others for some good gift from God, the vainglorious either glory in the gift while forgetting its Giver and source, or they glory in the affirmation and applause of others over (or against) God’s approval. Augustine, for example, possessed a truly impressive intellectual acumen and praiseworthy rhetorical skill, but the way he used these talents revealed his desire to win recognition from others (parents, friends, colleagues, and audiences) at the expense of God’s commendation.19 Like Augustine, we can have such a strong desire to boost our worldly approval ratings that in our choices and actions we end up either ignoring or spurning the gift-giver who makes them and their use possible.

Later in his life, while writing The City of God, Augustine uses vainglory to name the ultimate disorder behind the otherwise genuinely admirable acts of the Romans. “Glory they most ardently loved: for it they wished to live, for it they did not hesitate to die,” he writes.20 Even the Romans’ noble pursuit of virtue fell prey to vainglory. They cultivated virtue ultimately to enhance and secure the greatness of their own reputations. They sought after goodness for their own glory, rather than for God’s glory.21 Like much of our people-pleasing good behavior, the Romans’ vainglory drove people to strive for greater virtue. But whether we neglect to acknowledge God and arrogate his glory for ourselves, or whether we value human over divine approval, the end for which we seek such glory is vain.

All expressions of vainglory, however implicitly, include the desire for our own glory, by whatever means we manage to get it. When we fail to refer glory to God for the true goods he has given us, we therefore encounter not merely an additional type of vainglory but the disorder behind all forms of vainglory. Our failure shows us to be both unjust and ungrateful, because we are so busy seeking to manifest our own goodness that we deny or ignore its fundamental cause and source. Praise for the gift fittingly redounds to the glory of the Giver. Augustine famously divides those who seek to suppress this truth from those who live acknowledging the ways all goodness connects them to God:

Accordingly, two cities have been formed by two loves: the earthly by the love of self, even to the contempt of God; the heavenly by the love of God, even to the contempt of self. The former, in a word, glories in itself; the latter in the Lord. For the one seeks glory from [human beings]; but the greatest glory of the other is God, the witness of conscience. The one lifts up its head in its own glory; the other says to its God, “Thou art my glory, and the lifter up of mine head” [Ps. 3:3].22

To give up vainglory thus requires us to relinquish our place as the center of attention—in our pursuit of goodness, in our religious practice, in our everyday accomplishments at work and play. We must admit that from beginning to end, “it’s not about me.” Johann Sebastian Bach is remembered not only for writing beautiful music but also for writing on every manuscript soli deo gloria (glory to God alone). Affirming our gifts and the gifts of others, appreciating genuine goodness wherever we find it, and marveling at beauty and magnificence, whether large or small—these ways of celebrating goods with genuine value should all ultimately point us back to God.

Our typical reaction when a child is born gives us another example of a virtuous response. In the moments after birth, parents find themselves simply awash in waves of profoundest gratitude and overwhelmed by the miraculous wonder of the tiny bundle laying in their arms. What an amazing gift! What a wonder and a blessing. For that moment, at least, we might forget ourselves entirely, breathing our glorias in tearfully grateful, hushed, and awestruck tones. That frame of mind contrasts sharply with the parade of occasions in years to follow where vainglory whispers boastful suggestions in our ears and tempts us to show off pictures of our nice-looking children (but only when they are looking nice), as if that would be to our credit anyway. The amazing goodness of a child directs our attention to the Giver of all perfect gifts in the first case, while in the second, showing off the gift strategically places us in the spotlight. This example reveals how vainglory centers our gaze on ourselves and narrows our vision of goodness, rather than allowing created goodness to be fully embraced as a gift from a God from whom all blessings flow.

Hypocrisy and Onions

Jesus directly confronts vainglory in his Sermon on the Mount. Rather than picking on easy targets like celebrities, he brings this vice uncomfortably close to home, warning especially against the religious form of vainglory. To put it bluntly, he is addressing us. Aquinas quotes John Chrysostom to make the same point: “While other vices find their abode even in the servants of the devil, vainglory finds a place even in the servants of Christ.”23 Who among us hasn’t been tempted to try to look like a better Christian than we really are to win approval and acclaim from others? Christ’s sermon targets the cherished, self-serving fantasies of the vainglorious churchgoer: “Beware of practicing your piety before others in order to be seen by them . . . so that [you] may be praised by others . . . [and] seen by others. . . . Do not heap up empty phrases . . . [in order to] be heard because of [your] many words” (Matt. 6:1–2, 5, 7). As Christ makes clear in that passage, the applause of others is the sole reward such religious appearances will ever earn. A life spent craving human awards of glory and praise, full of empty-hearted acts designed to curate the right sort of attention from the right sort of audience, will bring only the fleeting applause the world can give. Its approval lasts only as long as you can put on a good show.24 The desert father Evagrius offers this counsel:

Do not sell your labours for people’s esteem, nor hand over the future glory for the sake of paltry fame, for human esteem settles in the dust (cf. Ps. 7:6) and its reputation is extinguished on earth, but the glory of virtue abides for eternity.25

Set the seal of silence on the spices of your ascetic labours, lest unfastened by your tongue they be stolen by esteem.26

Especially in our religious practice and devotion, hypocrisy—traditionally marked as a vice that springs from vainglory—trades truthfulness for a false front or respectable reputation, all in God’s holy name. Jesus reserves some of his harshest words for the Pharisees because they cared more about the outward observances of piety than a heart truly dedicated to worshiping God: “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which on the outside look beautiful, but inside they are full of the bones of the dead and of all kinds of filth. So you also on the outside look righteous to others, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness” (Matt. 23:27–28).

Hypocrisy naturally grows from a heart captivated by vainglory. We come to church each week to worship in clothing intended more to impress others than to fit us for worship. When we serve, we find false modesty easier than genuine hiddenness. We cherish our reputation as pastors who change lives with our powerful preaching. Or maybe we simply lament that we can’t pull off such a “witness” but still secretly wish we could.

Like you, I prayed for my family to look perfect in the pew, but my vainglorious dreams of model parenthood were easily shattered—and not just in church. Our four young (sometimes unruly and stain-covered) children kept blowing my cover—in the supermarket checkout line, during family portrait sessions, or worse, as we shuffled loudly into worship services (noticeably late, after I had just angrily shouted “Behave!” at everyone in the car). Such is the stuff of ordinary life; however, such public humiliations stung because of the vainglorious way my ego hung on my “Christian” image and reputation as a decent mother. But perhaps there is strange grace in having our masks stripped off. (At the very least, it made me more gracious toward other struggling parents.)

In our professional lives, we can identify parallel attempts at hypocrisy—some more successful than others. One cartoon shows a manager with a pie chart at an office meeting, admitting, “At this juncture in my presentation, I’d like to dispense with the illusion of coherence.”27 Sometimes God himself calls us out. Evagrius describes God’s discipline for the desert dweller who, after attaining some small spiritual gain, “acquires the horse of vainglory and rushes into the cities, getting its fill of the lavish praise accorded to its repute.” He faces the humiliation of falling into some previously vanquished and shameful sin (usually lust) for all to see. Doesn’t that sound eerily familiar? The lesson for all Christian leaders in the limelight, says this desert father, is that we should be careful how we share our virtue until we have learned to value humility over the opinions of others.28 In the end, whether your reputation is measured by worldly success or religious standards, and whether your self-image hangs on being a Hollywood celebrity or a holy Christian saint, Carly Simon might sing of all of us: “You’re so vain, I bet you think this [vice] is about you, don’t you?”29

Besides hypocrisy, the tradition also names boastfulness and the “love of novelties” as offspring vices of vainglory. Both are typical means to attract favorable attention. Boastfulness directly draws others’ attention and approval by verbally showcasing our good qualities. Bragging, talking ourselves up, and dominating conversation with stories about ourselves manifests our excellence in obvious ways to others. Showing off visually displays with action what big talk displays with words. Instagram, Facebook, and the like have merely created the newest venues for displaying this ancient vice and creating publicity for our private lives. Our culture loves its own self-made, self-starring spectacles.

Another of vainglory’s signature offspring vices, “love of novelties,” sports an archaic medieval name for the familiar phenomenon of having or doing the latest, greatest thing to win recognition and applause. Trending YouTube videos, stunts from the newest extreme sport, and everything ever documented in Ripley’s Believe It or Not! all count, as does any advertisement that catches our eye with the tagline “new and improved!” Love of novelties also covers being the kid on the bus with the brand-new toy based on a just-released hit movie or the first among our friends to vacation in the most recently popularized exotic location. In fact, it’s a testimony to our love of novelties that I find it nearly impossible to list examples of this phenomenon that won’t already be out-of-date by the time the book is published. (It’s as challenging as trying to keep references to the latest iPhone up-to-date!) In old and new forms, the driving desire to use novelty and newness to captivate others’ attention plays the same tired old vainglory game that Gregory the Great diagnosed more than a millennium ago.

Novelty-seeking typically falls on the shallow end of vainglory’s common symptoms, but more serious forms also regularly threaten. Vainglory, according to Cassian and other early teachers in the church, presents a special problem for Christians who are making progress in the spiritual life—that is, especially for the virtuous and holy. The more progress we make, and the more virtue we attain, the more goodness we have for others to notice and admire. And if we lack an audience, we are often happy to supply the part ourselves. Cassian tells an entertaining story of two monks, both living in solitude in the desert. The elder monk went to visit the other and heard him speaking aloud in his cell. He listened in for a moment, wondering which psalm his brother was reciting with such passion. It turned out, however, that the younger monk was absorbed in a vainglorious fantasy, playing aloud the part of a great preacher exhorting his imaginary congregation with great flourish, while relishing their rapt attention and admiration of his wisdom. The visiting monk knocked on the door, and when the “great preacher” stopped his “sermon” to answer it, he sheepishly asked how long ago his visitor had arrived. Bemused, the elder monk replied, “Just in time for the benediction.” Evagrius likewise warns against vainglorious self-congratulation in our daydreams about our great virtue: “One gets a fantasy of the priesthood and then spends the entire day thinking through the things that that involves; or as if the charism of healing were about to be granted, one sees in advance the miracles that happen and fantasizes about the people who will be healed, the honors coming from the brothers, and the gifts brought by outsiders, all those that come from Egypt and also from abroad, drawn by our renown.”30

Vainglory does not attack only when our virtues are mere fantasies. We also face it when our gains in virtue are real. Cassian warns that even when “we could be not overcome in direct combat with our adversary [the devil], we are conquered by the loftiness of our triumph” against him.31 Such vainglory is like an onion, the elders warn. You strip away one layer of vainglory only to find that that very achievement provides fodder for a further temptation to the same vice.32 “It is difficult to escape vainglory,” writes Evagrius, “for what you do to rid yourself of it becomes for you a new source of vainglory.”33 Perhaps our only consolation is confronting a smaller onion, which we must continue to peel with tears in our eyes.

A Living Doxology

The apostle Paul quotes Jeremiah, saying, “‘Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.’ For it is not those who commend themselves that are approved, but those whom the Lord commends” (2 Cor. 10:17–18). Real disciples bear fruit, says Jesus, fruit that glorifies God (John 15:8). What would it look like to seek God’s approval and praise first and foremost, instead of human glory? This may be more complicated than it first appears.

In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus calls his followers to be witnesses for him, saying, “You are the light of the world. A city built on a hill cannot be hid. No one after lighting a lamp puts it under the bushel basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven” (Matt. 5:14–16). But only a few verses later, he cautions,

Beware of practicing your piety before others in order to be seen by them; for then you have no reward from your Father in heaven. So whenever you give alms, do not sound a trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be praised by others. Truly I tell you, they have received their reward. But when you give alms, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your alms may be done in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will reward you. (6:1–4)

As in Augustine’s discussion of the virtues of the Romans, we must ultimately direct any acclaim for a virtuous act beyond ourselves, whether implicitly or explicitly. When we show our “light” to the world, we are not shining a spotlight on ourselves but illuminating the source of our goodness for others to see.

What motivates our disordered glory-seeking? Looking at vainglory’s roots provides clues about why we feel driven by this vice. Perhaps you don’t think vainglory is a spiritual problem for you because you would do anything to avoid being in the limelight. But the allure of vainglory likely entices all of us one way or another—even those of us who seem to be avoiding the public eye. For example, many of us are convinced deep down we will never really be good enough to shine without artificial lighting and a little extra polish. Maybe we are faking it because we fear we will never really make it. Vainglory grips us, but in a fearful form. In Miller’s words, we live in “a world of posing and shams, anxieties of exposure, and a fear that the genuine may be just another sham whose cover is too tough to be blown.”34 Our fear of exposure can lead us to clutch at more control than we ought, making sure our picture-perfect masks protect us from publicly revealing our obvious flaws.

Vainglory also shows itself in an arrogant form. Pursuing virtue often requires us to give up what the world calls success and happiness in order to achieve real peace. Being liked, respectable, and popular don’t always coincide with simplicity, integrity, and goodness.35 Vainglory, in its religious or nonreligious forms, serves those who prefer to take a shortcut to these real goods. Why work at actually being pious, or face difficulty and the possibility of failure, if we can pull off the mere reputation more easily? Or perhaps reputation-building does take significant effort, but not effort that is painful, since it allows us to remain masters of our own lives, comfortably surrounded by self-made means of affirmation. Devoting ourselves to a life that glorifies God and enjoys him forever36 takes humility and the yielding of control because we must receive our own good and others’ good as a gift. As the fantasies exposed by the desert fathers show, we would rather create and manage our own image than try to live up to being image-bearers of God—never a project known for its popularity. We should not be surprised, then, to find pride—the desire to control our own happiness, whether from fear or overconfidence—at the root of vainglory after all. In fact, Gregory calls vainglory pride’s “immediate offspring.”37

Tragically, vainglory wins applause and approval at the price of distancing us from others. Relationships cannot flourish when we dupe others or use them as sources of flattery, as a dull background against which we can shine, or as useful props in our reputation-building program. Human as well as divine relationships flourish in the context of truthfulness and sincerity. The publican, not the pridefully polished Pharisee, receives forgiveness because he exposes what he truly is to God. So too the deepest love flourishes in the openness of marriage and friendship, not the best-face-forward games of dating and partying. Communion with others, costly though it is, counts as vainglory’s greatest casualty. Like other sins, this vice isolates us, rather than bringing us into loving fellowship with God and other people. Vainglory’s contrasting virtues include integrity, humility, and gratitude. Pursuing these virtues keeps us real. Relinquishing our reputation-seeking yields a significant reward: we have a chance to be truly known and loved.

It’s ironic that the art of impressing others and gaining applause usually requires carefully hiding ourselves as much as it involves showing ourselves off to advantage. To be lauded by others, we cannot let them see our flaws, our failures, and our dark sides. Winning their approval and praise requires not only that we keep up a false facade but also that we carefully conceal the ugly truth about ourselves. Before we leave the house in the morning, we need to put on our game face and superhero costume and keep up the charade all day, without letting the cracks show. The sort of acceptance and approval this strategy wins us rightly feels fragile and hollow, not to mention exhausting. When others give us affirmation, then, they are affirming only the mask we let them see. Our deep human need for full and unconditional welcome remains unfulfilled and unsatisfied.

The great vices all make the list of seven because they pretend to fill the deepest and most significant of human desires. Vainglory provides a cheap substitute for true fulfillment of the human desire to be profoundly known by another person—to be known by name, for who we truly are—and to be loved just that way. Scripture itself acknowledges this need.

But now thus says the LORD,

he who created you, O Jacob,

he who formed you, O Israel:

Do not fear, for I have redeemed you;

I have called you by name, you are mine.

(Isa. 43:1)

O LORD, you have searched me and known me. . . .

For it was you who formed my inward parts;

you knit me together in my mother’s womb.

(Ps. 139:1, 13)

For the people the world renders invisible, whose good has been overlooked and neglected,38 as for all of us, this word from God is a comfort and balm. God promises to fulfill our deep desire to be known, to be acknowledged, and to be accepted with unconditional love. Before we make any effort to bolster approval ratings for ourselves, God has already freely given us what we need. Who could refuse such a welcome? From where, then, does the inclination come to resist that gift? From the knowledge that to receive that gift means we live by God’s standards of honor and glory and that we must relinquish our own picture of what makes us okay in the world’s eyes?

Augustine, in his Confessions, makes a further claim. Not only are we made to be known and loved, but we are made for praising our Creator—for knowing and loving God. A life spent turned inward, praising ourselves or seeking our own praise, will thereby stunt our growth and flourishing as human beings. To see truly who God is and how deeply he loves us evokes our praise and worship. To love God moves us to give him glory. Augustine says,

“You are great, Lord, and highly to be praised” (Ps. 47:2); “great is your power and your wisdom is unmeasurable” (Ps. 146:5). [Human beings], a little piece of your creation, desire to praise you, human beings “bearing their mortality with them” (2 Cor. 4:10), carrying with them the witness of their sin and the witness that you “resist the proud” (1 Pet. 5:5). Nevertheless, to praise you is our desire, a little piece of your creation. You stir us to take pleasure in praising you, because you have made us for yourself, and our heart is restless until it rests in you.39

A clear-eyed look at ourselves—we who are “a little piece of [God’s] creation”—removes attention from our worldly reputations and redirects it to God, who has made us what we are. We are good and worthy of honor because we are a reflection of him.40

From “Spin” to Silence

It may be very difficult to imagine living a life in which we care more about what God thinks of us than what others think. Vainglory wields significant power over us. What practices reveal and counter its power?

In what may be the strangest piece of pastoral advice ever dispensed, the desert father Macarius (Evagrius’s spiritual mentor) once counseled a young monk to go to the cemetery to shout both curses and praises at the dead. The monk returned, reporting that he had dutifully done so and that in both cases (not surprisingly) they had made no reply. Macarius then delivered the punch line of this living parable, soberly informing the monk that he too must become like the dead, deaf to both the abuse and the accolades of others. It’s a story meant to shock us, but by it Macarius means to teach that our excessive attachment to our own glory and our craving for human approval may be extreme enough to require extreme measures of detachment. Of course, the young monk still had to listen to his mentor Macarius, and to God, so the flip side of the discipline entails learning whose voice to pay attention to and what sorts of goodness to remain attached to.

If you are not too eager to go shouting at gravestones but are serious about learning the same lesson about resisting vainglory, two spiritual disciplines offer a path into new life—silence and solitude. Following desert counsel, both disciplines school us in detachment. We can practice each of them in many ways. We can be silent with others or before God or both. Richard Foster suggests letting our lives and actions speak for themselves by shutting down our self-made spin.41 Instead of elbowing into the conversation to justify ourselves or selectively describing a situation to make ourselves look better, he advises, be still. In silence we can recognize our anxious affirmation-seeking for what it is: a drive to groom an appreciative audience and put ourselves in the best light. Regular practice of the discipline of silence quietly weans us off our overdependence on human approval ratings. It also provides a break from voices clamoring with disapproval, including our own. When was the last time you spent time in a quiet place, with no role to play and no reputation to uphold, simply resting in God’s loving presence and listening attentively to him?42

Likewise, the discipline of solitude, writes Foster, “frees us from the panicked need for acclaim and approval” by removing our audience.43 Alone, we are cut off from opportunities to seek recognition and stripped of the need to maintain a respectable self-image. We no longer have to put our best face forward or keep up a convincing performance, even for ourselves. Foster writes, “I am free from desiring public gaze when I need hiddenness.”44 Jesus modeled a spiritually healthy rhythm of sociability and solitude: he ministered among the crowds, teaching and healing, but balanced that work by withdrawing often to a solitary place to pray. If your job regularly places you up front or in the public eye, Jesus’s example may be especially instructive. Silence and solitude yield a centered heart capable of attentiveness to others and an ear attuned to God’s voice. Such positive practices serve as a school of resistance against a world that tempts us to turn others’ “likes” of our successful, happy selves into homemade idols.

It may take time before this feels like freedom. The work of putting the right spin on our lives is exhausting, but it is also addictive, as our social media use attests. We need regular rhythms of tuning out and turning off the insistent voice-overs of vainglory. In our current context, relearning how to be silent and still so that we can listen may be the most countercultural thing we do. Stepping out of the spotlight and cultivating habits of silence and solitude may at first make us feel lonely, or even bereft. With persistent practice, though, these disciplines offer relief from the incessant work of curating our carefully crafted self-image and striving to win the world’s attention and approval. They invite us, in stillness, to receive God’s word of love and let it take root.

Start small. For one day or a week, let your actions speak for themselves, without defending yourself when you suspect others are being critical. How hard would it be not to look in the mirror at all, or to refrain from asking others about our appearance? Could we cease conversation about ourselves—not telling stories about our day or recounting our own version of events or rehearsing our feelings? In our work and elsewhere, could we choose to serve others in anonymous ways? Even such modest endeavors can reveal the surprising amount of mental effort and energy we devote daily to enhancing our image in the eyes of others. Over time, silence and solitude help us discern whether we are engaging in conversations and activities because of a desire to win recognition and renown or because we have something genuinely helpful and worthwhile to share.

Living with excessive desires for the approval of others can be crippling. Novelist Anne Lamott recounts the rather unconventional and slightly irreverent ritual with which she begins her writing. She imagines all the voices in her head—both positive and negative, constantly reciting their high expectations and devastating criticisms of her writing—as little mice. She drops them one by one by their tails in a big glass jar and screws the lid on tight. She can see the mice pawing at the sides and squeaking away furiously, but she cannot hear them. She sets the jar aside. Only when the voices are stilled and moved out of sight can she hear the characters she is writing about.45 Would you, too, find it easier to live, with inner and outer voices silenced, before an audience of One?

Be ready to find silence and solitude challenging, and not simply because you don’t want to take the time. Most of us are deeply invested in maintaining a certain image of ourselves. The discipline of silence also involves laying our own cherished self-image before God, including its elaborate rationalizations and sense of hard-earned respectability. Our ability to reflect on our own behavior as self-conscious beings means that vainglory’s pressure comes from within as well as without. As the desert fathers warn, we should be aware of the lingering temptation to create an imaginary internal audience that approves our fantasy-selves, long after we have withdrawn from public view. God asks us to relinquish our own favorite self-images too. Even when we are stripped of everything we think makes us worthy of approval, God wants us to know how dearly beloved we still are.

Sometimes we don’t realize how much our reputation means to us until it is damaged or lost. You might not realize how much you value being known as a competent professional or organized parent until you are sidelined during cancer treatment. You might chafe against an injury because it damages your picture of yourself as a high-achieving athlete. You might do anything to avoid chitchat with new people if you are unemployed, because the question “What do you do for a living?” makes you ache with embarrassment. What if your dream of being a perfect family is crushed by wayward children whose exploits become painfully public? What if others will always identify you first and foremost as a convict because of a crime you committed forty years ago?

For all these reasons and more, we need to lay down both our beautiful and our broken images of ourselves. Behind every discipline is grace. With enough regular time in God’s presence, listening to his word about us, our thirst to be well known for certain superficial qualities dies down or fades. In time, we also discover how easily and peacefully we can enjoy life without constantly thinking about refashioning ourselves or upgrading our lives. With practice, it becomes easier to recognize the emptiness and ephemerality of most of the goods vainglory inclines us to pursue.

Ultimately, however, vainglory needs to be pulled out at the root, which means cutting it off from pride, the source that feeds and nourishes it. Cassian notes that “we wrong . . . God by preferring to do for the sake of human beings what we should have done for his sake, [and we are] convicted by him who knows what is hidden of having preferred human beings to God and the glory of the world to the glory of the Lord.”46

Both pride and vainglory privilege our own conception of happiness and our own power to achieve it. Both prideful and fearfully controlling vainglory put the self at the center, demanding that the spotlight shine on only our most attractive side. Captivated by vainglory, we direct our best energy toward enhancing and controlling our public image. In the end, however, trying to manage our own reputation and manufacture approval for ourselves yields a life of isolation, falsity, shallowness, and self-preoccupation. What a contrast with a life rooted in God’s unconditional approval, a life in which we “lay down the crushing burden of the opinions of others” and “give up on all the little human systems of self-aggrandizement” and self-promotion that lead to exhaustion and emptiness.47 Like Garrison Keillor’s cleaning lady in this chapter’s epigraph, perhaps that kind of life—whether or not it earns worldly attention and applause—will be of some real use to the world.

Weaning ourselves from disordered desire for glory leads to the freedom to enjoy good things, wherever we find them, with celebration and gratitude. Call this creating a culture of good glory. We can bless the world and build up the body of Christ by appreciating good things as gifts from God and rejoicing in others’ goodness. Instead of peeling the onion of vainglory, only to find more layers of vice spiraling all the way down, Augustine exhorted his congregation to create a virtuous circle of glory-giving instead. Augustine compared his preaching (and, by extension, the use of any of our gifts) to serving as a waiter in the house of the Lord. None of us is master of the house. We serve only as the stewards who are fed by the same bread we share with everyone else.48 God is glorified when we acknowledge our goodness as a gift, when we gratefully offer such gifts and receive others’ in return, and when all give thanks for gifts well shared. Such a virtuous community of proper enjoyment and encouragement itself glorifies God by being a beautiful witness. Practicing good glory-giving also means welcoming, celebrating, encouraging, and blessing others because we see them as gifts from God. A mother’s loving embrace; a grandfather’s blessing; a coach who believes in the best we have to offer; a good word from a mentor, caregiver, or friend who reminds us how beloved we are as God’s own children—all these are pictures of good glory-giving. When our affirmations echo God’s, they testify to the goodness in us that is genuinely worth celebrating.49

Once we recognize vainglory’s hold on us, we can begin to trade practices of self-glorification for training in a better way. Wresting free from vainglory’s empty grasping, we can turn to God for the recognition and acceptance human beings most deeply need. When we are known and loved by the God whose approval we cannot live without, our eyes will not be so blinded by flash and dazzle. Then we can rightly hear and heed God’s call to let our light shine.

FURTHER REFLECTION

Try to think of a good you have sought glory in that fits the following categories of vainglory: 

a. A quality, appearance, or action that you have faked having

b. A quality, appearance, or action that isn’t worth much in the eternal scheme of things

c. A quality, appearance, or action that is unkind, unjust, unethical, or illegal but that garners valuable social acceptance for you

d. A truly good quality that you have taken too much credit for or have used to enhance your own reputation without showing gratitude to God for his gifts to you

Which form of vainglory are you most susceptible to? Are you motivated more by prideful vainglory (the need to display your goodness) or fearful vainglory (the need to cover up your defects)?

“It was said of Abba Agatho that for three years he kept a small pebble in his mouth, to teach himself silence.”50 Try silencing your self-talk for a day or a week. Avoid sharing your opinions or feelings, and don’t respond to criticism. A fast from social media might be a useful part of this exercise. Focus on listening attentively and lovingly to others instead.
Journal each day on your experience. What have you learned about how you use conversation for self-aggrandizement, image-enhancement, and reputation-building? In what ways is your communication about yourself healthy and loving?

Think of a time when you have been graced with pure joy and celebration over God’s gifts (to you or another person, or even in creation). What about this experience made it an occasion of good glory? Who has been your greatest encourager or someone who named gifts or goodness in you?

FURTHER READING

Ruth Haley Barton, Invitation to Solitude and Silence (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2010).

Rebecca K. DeYoung, Vainglory: The Forgotten Vice (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2014).

cGN

4 
Envy

Feeling Bitter When Others Have It Better

Of all the deadly sins, only envy is no fun at all.

—Joseph Epstein, Envy

The film Amadeus, set in eighteenth-century Vienna, chronicles the relationship between court composer Antonio Salieri and his famous rival, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.1 As a young man, Salieri prayed for musical success, promising God his devotion and chastity if only God would make him a great composer. When Mozart burst on the scene with astounding talent, overshadowing all other contenders and destroying Salieri’s dreams of greatness, Salieri was enraged. How could God lavish such amazing musical gifts on such an arrogant, shallow buffoon? From their first meeting, Salieri envied Mozart, and he nurtured his envy long after Mozart was dead. As an old man, Salieri makes a fascinating character study—still yearning for greatness, but also knowing that Mozart’s music will outshine his own forever.

In the film’s opening scene, Salieri tries to commit suicide, guilt-stricken over his complicity in hastening Mozart’s death. A priest visits Salieri to hear his confession, a confession the rest of the film recounts. When the priest arrives, the aged Salieri is playing the piano from his wheelchair. Salieri identifies himself as a composer and asks his confessor if he has any musical training. The priest admits to learning a little as a young boy in Vienna, and Salieri seizes the opportunity to test his reputation. He plays tune after tune he has written, expecting his listener to find one of them familiar. “This one was very popular in its day,” he insists. The priest shakes his head, embarrassed that he does not recognize any of them and exasperated that Salieri persists, exposing his ignorance. Then Salieri pauses. “Wait!” he says, with a gleam in his eye. “What about this one?” He plays the opening measures of a sparkling little tune. The priest lights up almost immediately—“Yes, yes, I know it!”—and he continues humming it even after Salieri lifts his hands from the keyboard. He smiles at Salieri, visibly relieved. “Oh, that’s nice! That’s very nice. I’m sorry, I didn’t know you wrote that.” Salieri’s face darkens with malice and his eyes narrow.

“I didn’t,” he replies. “That was Mozart.”

His experience with the priest only confirms the truth that Salieri cannot bear to admit to himself but also cannot escape: Mozart’s God-given gifts will always eclipse his own. Compared to Mozart, his musical talent will always be second-rate and second-best. The priest tries to console him: “All men are equal in God’s eyes.” Salieri arches his eyebrows skeptically. “Are they?” After his rivalry with Mozart, he cannot, or will not, let himself believe it.

Amadeus shows us a portrait of the vice of envy and its destructive power. Why are we envious? Whom do we envy? And why does envy lead to such destructive impulses? While envy typically breeds malice—Gregory the Great lists hatred among its offspring vices—envy has an obviously self-destructive, self-despising side too. A poem by Victor Hugo recounts an opportunity granted to Envy and Avarice to receive whatever they wished, on the condition that the other receive a double portion. Envy replied, “I wish to be blind in one eye.”2 The envious person resents another person’s good gifts because they are superior to his or her own. The envier feels bitter not just because the other person is better; rather, she chafes at the way the other’s superiority makes her feel her own lack and inferiority more acutely.

Envy and Its Ugly Cousins

First we need to distinguish between envy in the technical sense we are speaking of here and envy in the everyday ways we use the word, especially since in ordinary language “envy” is treated as synonymous with terms like “jealousy,” “covetousness,” and “greed.” For example: “I’m so jealous that you got to go on such a nice vacation!” or “I’m so envious of that great new car you are driving. Where did you get it? I want to buy one too.”

Both envy and covetousness focus on something desirable that belongs to another, something we ourselves lack. The envious and the covetous are “have-nots.” If they were greedy, they would want something like what the other has, or perhaps want more of it than another, and they could say, “I want one of those too.” But the envious and the covetous don’t want to “have one too.” They want the very thing the rival has—“I want that one, the one she has.” While the covetous person’s desires focus on having an object for herself, the envious person is at least as concerned with the rival’s status or good standing as a result of having that object. The covetous person delights in acquiring the thing, while the envier delights in the way the redistribution of goods affects her and her rival’s respective positions. Thus, it often gives the envier pangs to see the rival have something she does not, or it gives her perverse satisfaction to see her rival’s good taken away, even if she herself does not acquire it as a result.

Covetousness, like greed, tends to be more focused on possessions—things we have or own—than envy is. In Scripture, King Ahab covets Naboth’s vineyard (1 Kings 21).3 Envy, on the other hand, typically concentrates its concern on who we are. In envy, we eye the internal qualities of another person, qualities that give a person worth, honor, standing, or status. If the envious do desire an external thing, it is because that object symbolizes or signifies its owner’s high position or greatness. Consider the difference, for example, between a car aficionado wanting a BMW 750i because she loves the driving performance of that particular model, and a neighbor relishing the purchase of a BMW because it makes him feel superior to his brother-in-law, who just bought a new Toyota Camry. It’s not the car that makes us green with envy but what being the owner of such a car says about who we are, as demonstrated by the personal respect and admiration that we command when we pull up to the curb in it.4 Getting the right car (or clothes or house or job) serves as a means to an end: it signals something significant about our personal worth. Not having the car means more than simply lacking that possession; more importantly, it means being deficient or defective as a person. Because of what they lack, enviers feel less admirable and less worthy of love.

In this way, envy, like jealousy, has to do with love—both love between persons and love for ourselves. Although we commonly use “jealousy” and “envy” synonymously, jealousy differs in that it refers to the condition of loving something and possessing it, and then feeling threatened because the loved thing or person might be taken away. God is described as a jealous God in Deuteronomy 5, for example, because the love he commands from his people can be lost when they run after idols instead. As we see in the most common examples of jealousy—the love triangle and the jealous lover—jealousy paradigmatically arises in a love relationship, and specifically, one in which a person considers another person his or her own. Because God describes himself as jealous in Scripture, we cannot label every instance of jealousy as sinful in the way every instance of envy is, according to the tradition. Perhaps sometimes jealousy is properly protective and therefore good. But we typically use the term pejoratively, to indicate a twisted or disordered claim to possession, not a righteous claim to what belongs to us. Human jealousy, in the bad sense, stems from a selfish or inappropriate claim to possess another, as when a jealous husband treats his wife as his property or a jealous wife treats her husband as under her control. Since only God can make a fully possessive claim toward another person—“You are mine!”—human claims to jealousy toward another remain morally dubious at best.

Jealousy counts as envy’s close cousin because both are personal and related to love. The jealous “have” something or someone they love but might lose. The envious, by contrast, are “have-nots”—they do not have the good their rival does, and they do not have self-love either. Thus, they have nothing to lose and everything to gain from another’s loss.

In Thomas Aquinas’s analysis, envy also counts as a type of sorrow. We might translate that term today as a pang of resentment or an inward cringe. He uses “sorrow” in a technical sense, as a type of aversion, which includes everything from not being entirely happy for another’s goodness to more obvious chagrin, Schadenfreude, antipathy, and deep resentment.5 Envy does not wholeheartedly rejoice with those who rejoice. Sorrow over another person’s good, however, doesn’t always count as envy. We might feel threatened by someone else’s good in a nonenvious sense if we fear that another’s good will cause us harm (e.g., an enemy acquires strength to be used against us). Or we might rightly be dismayed because someone else’s good is undeserved (e.g., someone unethically or illegally profits at others’ expense). Envy’s sorrow, by contrast, is primarily about our relative status and superiority where ego is on the line. Envious sorrow might be directed inwardly or outwardly: we can express it in disappointment or discontent with ourselves, or we can catch hints of it in our unnecessary criticism or ridicule of others, our keen eye for others’ flaws, or our feelings of defensiveness around superiors. Sometimes we see the traces of envy when we simply feel better about ourselves because the playing field is a bit more level. In envy, we chafe at another person’s good, simply because their goodness makes ours pale in comparison.

The Comparison Game

The envious care how they stack up against others because they measure their self-worth comparatively. In Aquinas’s terms, the envious grieve over another’s good because it is greater than their own,6 and because the comparison reveals not only their lack of that particular good but also their consequent lack of worth. Unlike the possession of goodness (“I am good” or “this is good”), to excel in goodness entails a comparative ranking between two persons or things: “I excel you” or “this excels that.” All of us need to be loved and found worthy, but the envier makes attaining this love and worth a competitive game. As illustrated in the stories of Jacob favoring Joseph over his brothers and favoring Rachel over Leah, the envious do not believe that all are loved fully, equally, or unconditionally. Their love game admits winners and losers, superior and inferior, more and less worthy. As Francis Bacon put it, “Envy is ever joined to the comparing of a man’s self; and where there is no comparison, no envy.”7 Thus, envy speaks at least as much about the lack of worth that the comparative ranking exposes as it does about any particular good the envier has or lacks. Envy depends on a sense of inferiority and a lack of self-love.

In Amadeus, Salieri envies Mozart’s musical genius. Salieri cannot buy something comparable or attain that level of talent with more hard work. Mozart’s musicianship is a special gift, a personal quality, something unique and internal to who he is. Salieri wishes such giftedness had been his but realizes it lies impossibly out of reach. (Since Salieri’s envy targets another’s personal quality, however, he can’t destroy the talent Mozart has without in some sense destroying Mozart himself.) Consequently, Salieri will never rest content to become more like Mozart. In envy’s comparison game, being superior to Mozart is the only way he thinks he can avoid being inferior. With a malignant gleam in its eye, envy takes others’ excellence as a personal insult. Salieri’s strategy, therefore—typical of those consumed by envy—is to take down his rival and ruin him, rather than emulate him.

When circumstances force the envious to confront what they judge to be their own lack of worth, their unhappiness and grief can be unbearable. They feel compelled to do something—anything—to get themselves out from under it. In extreme cases, this means sabotaging the rival, but even this stratagem cannot fully rescue the envier from stewing in her or his own self-made resentments. In Disney’s The Lion King, Scar illustrates this attitude. He disguises his own sense of inferiority by bullying his obviously inferior sidekicks (the hyenas) to prop up his own ego, while planning the demise of Mufasa, his actual superior and rightful king, with a bitter spirit. Similarly, in The Incredibles, archvillain Syndrome vows to destroy all superheroes, whose defining feature is to outrank him in power. Yet even with all the technological props in the world, he can never be what they are—real superheroes with real powers. Both fictional characters take envy to extremes, but in less malicious and more mundane cases too, envy’s “evil eye” surveys the world with hostility, aggrieved at others’ goodness and dissatisfied with its own.

According to one confessional manual, envy betrays itself with a variety of symptoms: feeling offended at the talents, successes, or good fortune of others; selfish or unnecessary rivalry and competition; pleasure at others’ difficulties or distress; ill will; reading false motives into others’ behavior; belittling others; false accusations; backbiting (saying something bad, even if true, behind another’s back); slander (saying something bad, even if true, in the open about another); the initiation, collection, or retelling of gossip; arousing, fostering, or organizing antagonism against others; scorn of another’s abilities or failures; teasing or bullying; ridicule of persons, institutions, or ideals; and prejudice against those we consider inferior, who consider us inferior, or who seem to threaten our security or position.8 Even if you don’t remember middle school and haven’t watched Mean Girls, such a list may make envy feel achingly familiar.9

Evidence of envy may escalate in a twisted progression from thoughts and feelings to words to deeds, and from secret and underhanded tactics to open and forceful animosity. We can see this in the catalog of envy’s offspring vices. According to Aquinas, envy typically exposes itself outwardly with “detraction,” more commonly known as backstabbing—for instance, a writer who murmurs behind her hand about her rival’s book’s “unfortunate” stylistic weaknesses and the author’s embarrassingly shoddy research.10 The envier’s spiteful spirit may occasionally show openly as reviling, but even direct sabotage often looks like subterfuge, like the time-honored ploy of “damn[ing] . . . with faint praise.”11 If these methods of trying to detract from the rival’s excellence successfully damage the rival’s reputation, the envious rejoice at the other’s downfall (Schadenfreude). As François La Rochefoucauld notes, “In the misfortunes of our best friends we always find something not wholly displeasing to us.”12 Of course, they can also revel in their rival’s misfortune even if it happened by accident or by another’s agency. Anything that closes the comparative gap assuages the envier’s discontent.

Walker Percy offers this insightful commentary on the invidious heart:

The Envious Self (in the root sense of envy: invidere, to look at with malice): Why it is that the Self—though it Professes to be Loving, Caring, to Prefer Peace to War, Concord to Discord, Life to Death; to Wish Other Selves Well, not Ill—in fact Secretly Relishes Wars and Rumors of War, News of Plane Crashes, Assassinations, Mass Murders, Obituaries, to say nothing of Local News about Acquaintances Dropping Dead in the Street, Gossip about Neighbors getting in Fights or being Detected in Sexual Scandals, Embezzlements, and other Disgraces?13

Envy can escalate. If the envious try to undermine their rival and are not successful, then their bitterness intensifies and they resent the other person’s good fortune even more. If unassuaged, envy can even lead to full-scale hatred of a rival. Hatred’s object is whatever blocks our happiness. Naturally, we have a strong aversion to such things as evil, because we see them as harmful or damaging to our own good. For the envious, however, the hated obstacle to their own good is the rival’s possession of excellence, or more precisely, the rival himself who is superior because of the good he possesses. Envy tinges her view of the world with enmity, or at least with antagonism: it’s me-versus-you, my good or your good—never both. Even if she does not undermine the rival’s good, the envier finds herself pleased with its despoilment.

Finally, if the envy that fuels these strategies becomes entrenched over time, it edges closer to open malice toward the rival. At this point, the envier’s hatred of her neighbor spills over into hatred of the one who stacked the deck against her. God (or fate, or whatever implacable force allocated the goods at stake) gets the ultimate blame for what the envier perceives to be the unjust distribution of excellence those goods bring. We see in Salieri’s case that he holds God responsible for shortchanging some while helping others flourish. In a chilling scene, Salieri takes down his crucifix—before which he earlier prayed for the talent to become a great composer—and burns it in the fire. He vows revenge, telling God, “I will destroy Your incarnation” in Mozart.

Strikingly, the envier does not typically advertise his envy out in the open; he tends toward passive-aggressive stabs in the back. In William Langland’s Piers Plowman, the character Envy disguises his invidious hatred for his neighbor with well-mannered words in public, knowing that he is not in a position to pull off a public takedown. Instead, he sows the seeds of malicious gossip in whispers instead.

There’s a nearby neighbour I have often annoyed;

I’ve denounced him to nobles, who’ve seized his possessions,

And by false accusations made foes of his friends,

For I’m sorry to see him succeed or in luck.

I sow such dissension between estates

That it leads to much loss both of life and of limb.

When I meet at market the man I most hate

I hail him heartily as an honoured friend—

I daren’t do differently as he’s definitely stronger—

But heaven help him if I have him in my power. . . .

Thus I live without love like a dog running loose,

My body all bloated with bitter gall.14

Why do the envious shun open warfare? Because they typically stand in a position of inferiority, the envious often prefer deceitful or underhanded strategies. Their sense of being less (worthy, talented, successful, etc.), so rooted in their identity, generates feelings of powerlessness. After all, if they really were worth something or had the power to be greater, then they would already be ranked as high as their rivals. To come out in the open and declare their envy amounts to a public admission and humiliating display of inadequacy. Even though envy essentially requires the envier’s acknowledgment (at some level) that her rival excels her, the envier is pained to admit this to herself and even more pained to admit it to others.15 So her envy silently eats her up from the inside. In the words of John Chrysostom, “As a moth gnaws a garment, so doth envy consume a [person].”16

But the envier’s sense of powerlessness also comes from a second source. Compounding their inferior self-worth, the envious also typically succumb to a sort of fatalism. In their view, the world, God, fate, society, or some other force external to their own sense of control has dealt them a bad hand. They feel cheated, but their own efforts against such a great, distant, and alien force seem doomed. Hence, their passivity. “The deck has been stacked against me,” thinks the envious person. Salieri prays for musical talent and acclaim, vowing to dedicate himself to God in return for his answered prayer. God does not answer his prayer. Instead he doles out talent in spades to Salieri’s undeserving rival. Who can win against God? When even an appeal to divine intervention fails him, Salieri’s only remaining option is to strike out at Mozart himself. Even so, he reverts to the usual stratagems of deceit that are characteristic of those who perceive themselves as weaker or inferior, or the guerrilla-warfare-and-retreat tactics of those who know they cannot win an open battle.

Joseph Epstein tells a joke that illustrates envy’s malicious and impotent stance well. The characters are an Englishwoman, a Frenchman, and a Russian:

Each [was] given a single wish by one of those genies whose almost relentless habit is to pop out of bottles. The Englishwoman says that a friend of hers has a cottage in the Cotswolds, and that she would like a similar cottage, with the addition of two extra bedrooms and a second bath and a brook running in front of it. The Frenchman says that his best friend has a beautiful blonde mistress, and he would like such a mistress himself, but a redhead instead of a blonde and with longer legs and a bit more in the way of culture and chic. The Russian, when asked what he would like, tells of a neighbor who has a cow that gives a vast quantity of the richest milk, which yields the heaviest cream and the purest butter. “I vant dat cow,” the Russian tells the genie, “dead.”17

As Buechner says, envy’s trademarked desire is for “everyone else [to be] as unsuccessful as you are.”18 If you cannot rise, then you work to level the playing field.

The story of Syndrome in The Incredibles gives us a picture of envy’s futility and the envier’s inferiority. Together, they secure what the envier feels doomed to: inevitable failure in besting his rival.19 Early in the film, Incrediboy is an ardent but annoying admirer of the superhero Mr. Incredible. After being spurned by his hero, he changes his name to Syndrome and launches upon a lifetime’s work of killing off superheroes. At the same time, he spends all his energy trying to make himself into an imitation superhero, creating a machine that only he, with his superior technological gadgetry, can defeat. His plan, as revealed to Mr. Incredible, is simple: perfect the machine, defeat it in a mock battle to win acclaim, and then sell his technology to the masses. His rationale? As we saw in this book’s introduction, Syndrome believes that if everyone can be “super,” then no one will be. His efforts are exposed as a pathetic failure when he sends his machine to wreak havoc in the city and his charade of “defeating” it with pseudo-superpowers is exploded for the second-rate fakery it is. No technological imitation counts as a real superpower. Syndrome’s ill-fated position of inferiority cannot be changed, despite his best efforts. His inferiority only gets confirmed even more painfully for all to see.

The Rivalry

When analyzing envy, we will also find it instructive to think about why Salieri envies Mozart and not someone else. If we think about the people we envy, and why we envy them in particular, a pattern emerges. Enviers don’t usually envy those who are far removed from their interests and lifestyles or who are vastly more talented or successful than they are. They tend to envy people to whom they might actually be compared unfavorably—that is, those who are just like them, only better. A writer couldn’t care less if an Olympic athlete wins a gold medal in the five-thousand-meter run while she can barely finish a local 5K road race. But she burns when her colleague gets a rave review on his new novel while her own published work gets only half-hearted notice. For the person who defines himself by his career status and earning power, success is not defined in comparison to Bill Gates or Warren Buffet but rather by “making $10 a month more than [his] brother-in-law.”20 As Aquinas puts it, we envy only those whom we wish to rival or surpass in reputation.21 As an old song says bluntly, “We hate it when our friends become successful” because we think “it should’ve been me / it could’ve been me.”22 The envious characteristically resent the success only of those in whose place they can picture themselves—those whom they “might have been” were it not for the cruel twists of fate. Yet at the same time they find themselves feeling as though that possibility is so far removed from them as to be impossible. The target of our envy paradoxically stands both too close for comfort and completely out of reach.

The envious long to be superior, for their self-esteem depends on outranking others in the relevant field of comparison. Their own identity depends on excelling others, but only those others who threaten that identity—that is, those close enough to be compared as rivals.23 If we reflect on those we envy, we are likely to discover how we define our own identity and where we see that identity as most vulnerable. Envy generally emerges when another’s superiority seems to threaten or lessen our own excellence and where that comparison leaves us feeling inferior. If those areas encroach closely on our sense of who we are and why we are valued, envy’s bitter gall can turn to pure venom.

Reflecting on the different ways we can experience competition and rivalry gives us some insight into the envier’s perspective. How and why do we strive for excellence, and how do we distinguish envious striving from nonenvious aspiration in competitive venues? The film Chariots of Fire gives us a character portrait of two different men with diametrically opposed views of competition.24 Eric Liddell and Harold Abrahams contend against each other in the hundred-yard dash. Harold drives himself to excel and devotes himself to winning—because he fears losing. He displays the envier’s mentality. After the first race he fails to win, Harold sits in the stands with his head in his hands, his self-image dashed to pieces. He cannot see himself as someone who runs and sometimes wins; rather, he must be a winner. “If I can’t win, I won’t run!” he says vehemently to the woman he loves. Exasperated, she responds, “Well, if you won’t run, you can’t win.” Harold has an envier’s attitude—defensive, afraid of being shown inferior, and happy with himself only when he outranks his competition in excellence. Being good enough means being better than another. His envy makes his competitors antagonists. He cannot fully celebrate their excellence.

Eric Liddell, in turn, tries to explain to his sister that his desire to run comes not from a restless desire to prove what he is but from an already-possessed sense of rest in God. “When I run,” he tells her passionately, “I feel God’s pleasure.” When I run, that is—not when I win. Eric already feels sure of God’s love. He strives to run well and to win, not in order to earn favor but in order to revel in excellent activity with joy. He loves competition, not because he needs to win but because he loves to run well. He values his competitors as his partners in seeking excellence rather than as rivals who would strip him of excellence should they best him in the race.

Each man commits to running well, with intensity and fervor. But Harold has the anxious edge of the envier, someone who can never be good or good enough unless he triumphs. Harold’s love for himself is contingent on his comparatively successful performance. By contrast, Eric competes with the calm confidence of someone who knows he is worth something, whatever place he finishes. He therefore runs with joy and freedom, not fear of failure.

Philosopher Thomas Williams has argued that the envious astutely judge both the excellence at stake and their rank compared to others.25 The distorting effects of the vice show instead in how and why they seek that excellence—namely, to shore up their precariously contingent and conditional sense of worth. Their perception of inferiority—based on their lack of some quality they value highly, something in terms of which they measure their value—leaves the envious feeling bad about themselves. When their rivals outshine them, therefore, it is not over something negligible or trivial. Rather, their rivals’ success threatens the best part of themselves—the part they take pride in, something on which their self-respect depends.26 Their judgment of who is “better” or “worse” might be accurate enough, but they take this judgment further, internally chafing against such an evaluation because, to them, it implies they are worth less than someone else who is better. And who could love a worthless self? When we envy, our love for ourselves depends on excelling our rival. That explains why Aquinas locates the vice of envy in the will—the same place he locates the virtue of love.

Envy: The Enemy of Love

I hope it’s obvious by now how the fundamental disposition of the envious directly opposes love. When you love, you rejoice in others’ good.27 When you envy, you sorrow over it. The “greatest commandment” instructs us to love God above all and our neighbors as ourselves (Matt. 22:37–39). Envy directly undercuts love of our neighbor. Fictional examples such as Amadeus, The Lion King, and Snow White show the envious planning their superior rivals’ downfall and, ultimately, plotting their death, while The Incredibles gives us a slightly more comic take on the same theme. In these extreme cases, the chain reaction begins with the capital vice of envy, which eventually gives rise to hatred, which incentivizes murder, hatred’s bitter fruit. The same themes play out in the story of Joseph and his brothers in Genesis: “Now [Jacob] loved Joseph more than any other of his children, because he was the son of his old age; and he had made him a long robe with sleeves. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably to him” (Gen. 37:3–4, emphasis added). Soon after, they devise a plan to kill him. This chapter’s analysis of envy so far suggests, however, that spite at the unworthiness of the rival also works to distract from and disguise the envier’s own sense of unworthiness. The commandment is to love your neighbor as you love yourself. The envier can do neither.

Amadeus further links Salieri’s hatred of Mozart to hatred of God. The film’s title plays on the idea that God, like Jacob, plays favorites: Amadeus means “loved by God”—as in, if Mozart is loved, then Salieri is hated. A contemporary confessional manual picks up on this idea, defining envy as “dissatisfaction with our place in God’s order of creation, manifested in begrudging his gifts to others.”28 Salieri’s ultimate gripe is not with Mozart but with God, for giving Mozart greater talent than he gave Salieri. Such extreme cases show that the envier cannot rejoice in what God gives others, because it makes her feel worse about herself. Aquinas argues that envy’s opposition to love of God and neighbor (the virtue of caritas) makes it a mortal or deadly sin.29 In short, the envious resent God, feel bitter toward others, and condemn themselves to a hell of their own making already on earth.

Sometimes the envier will try to resolve her predicament by rearranging the rankings so that she comes out excelling her rival. Even if she could be successful in bringing her rival down and establishing her own superiority, however, the ground of her self-worth remains fragile and temporary. That’s why those who are prone to envy—like Harold Abrahams—feel fearful even when they win. Their hold on their higher position is tenuous and easily lost. And when their position of excellence gets undermined, so does their sense of self-worth. Like Uncle Frank, who fails to retain his place as the “number one Proust scholar” in the film Little Miss Sunshine, when we lose our top place in the ranking, we lose everything.30 (In response to Frank’s depressed outlook, his antagonistic brother-in-law remarks, “Sarcasm is the sour grapes of losers trying to bring winners down to their level.”) Even when the envier succeeds in outdoing her rival, therefore, she still does not have what she really desires or needs—namely, a secure, noncontingent, unconditional sense of her own worth. Some secular philosophers declare envy to be naturally human and incurable, and therefore recommend trying to channel envy’s discontent into self-improving strategies.31 Our analysis suggests, however, that the cure for envy requires getting out of the comparative game of engineering self-worth altogether.

The vice of envy has roots sunk deep in pride. The envier claims the prerogative and responsibility to make her own place in the ranking and to manufacture her own worth by excelling the relevant rivals. The envious thus expend all their efforts usurping God’s role: founding their self-worth on their own claims to excellence, resenting their inferior status or engineering the downfall of their competitors, and deciding for themselves who is and is not worthy of the greater gifts. As with all forms of pride, however, the best the envious can do is play God, a strategy that ultimately collapses into one big charade. The envious cannot give themselves talent or success; they cannot make themselves excellent or give themselves worth. Nor can they make others less than who they are, or of less value. Years later, the only tune the priest recognizes is Mozart’s. Salieri’s greatest efforts ended in failure.

Envy is a loser’s game. In more ways than one, the envy game dooms us to lose even if we win. “Winning” at envy means destroying the possibility of love between ourselves and others, and between ourselves and God. The envious insist on living in a way that precludes gratitude and contentment, love and happiness. But only relationships of love will truly make us happy. The envious thus pursue happiness in a way that necessarily undermines their own chances of having it.

To escape from this vice, we must therefore find a completely different foundation for our self-worth. We’ve already noted that envy depends on a comparative self-value. From the enviers’ perspective, their worth is conditional. If they excel their competitors, then they have value. Moving out of envy into love is analogous to making the transition from dating to marriage. The premise of dating includes needing to win your beloved’s conditional affection in order to secure the relationship, while in marriage, you both live from an already secure relationship of unconditional love.

What would it be like to live anchored in such deep, secure love? What would it be like to believe that you yourself have unconditional and noncomparative value? As a spiritual problem, envy requires a spiritual solution. To overcome envy, we need to work from a new vision of who we are, as unconditionally beloved children of God. God tells us in Isaiah 43:1–4, “But now thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: Do not fear, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name; you are mine. . . . You are precious in my sight, and honored, and I love you.” God loves us already and without any qualifications—not because of our moral worthiness, our attractiveness, or our achievements—but simply as God’s own. “A woman has two smiles that an angel might envy,” wrote Thomas Haliburton, “the smile that accepts a lover before words are uttered, and the smile that lights on the first born baby, and assures it of a mother’s love.”32 We all need that kind of love. And that is exactly how God loves us.

Jesus in the Gospels—especially in Luke’s account—makes a point of affirming and lifting up those who lack status or worth, those who count little or not at all in the social rankings of the day, those who are the smallest and least. His love of them does not rest on their performance, excellence, or special qualities that make them better or more worthy than others. He offers love as a sheer, undeserved gift. He gives it to them just as they are. In offering love, acceptance, and value especially to these people, Jesus seems to be deliberately defying envy’s competitive view of love and worth, trying to help us see beyond it. Perhaps like them, we need to see him face-to-face to realize what such love looks like. No effort we can make could earn such love—nor can we manufacture a satisfying substitute for it.

Robert Roberts explains how God’s unconditional love stands as the antithesis of envy:

The Christian’s self-understanding is that she is precious before God—however much a sinner, however much a failure (or success) she may be by the standards of worldly comparisons—and that every other person she meets has the same status. . . . This vision is not only one that levels every distinction by which egos seek . . . glory. . . . This vision, when appropriated, is also the ultimate ground of self-confidence. For the message is that God loves me for myself—not for anything I have achieved, not for my beauty or intelligence or righteousness or for any other “qualification,” but simply in the way that a good mother loves the fruit of her womb. If I can get that into my head—or better, into my heart—then I won’t be grasping desperately for self-esteem at the expense of others, and cutting myself off from my proper destiny, which is spiritual fellowship with them.33

If we know ourselves securely affirmed as having unconditional worth, a worth based on God’s love, we can freely affirm others’ gifts without feeling threatened or inferior. God gifts us with a self that is free to love without anxiety that its own contributions will be compared to another’s and found wanting. With such a gift, we can take joy in our own good and in the good of others. As W. H. Auden wrote, the key, “since all self-knowledge tempts man into envy,” is to “love without desiring all that you are not.”34

The Evil Eye

Envy’s deep link to love and acceptance is the key to understanding its importance, its rank among the capital vices, and its cure. Aquinas says that two capital vices oppose love: sloth undermines our love for God (the first and greatest commandment) and envy undermines our love for our neighbor, whom we should love as ourselves (the second commandment—second, in part, because love of God enables us to love ourselves and others as God does). Entrenched envy causes us serious damage, because love figures so centrally in human fulfillment. Overcoming envy requires acknowledging a deeply human need for unconditional love. It likewise requires that we acknowledge the divine source of such love.

“Envy comes from people’s ignorance of, or lack of belief in, their own gifts.”35 Because this vice powerfully distorts our view of our value and self-worth—that is, how we see ourselves and the place from which we view everything else—and does so at such a fundamental level, we might find it difficult to imagine how envy could ever be remedied. Envy’s distorted vision earns this vice the nickname “the evil eye.” Thus its remedy requires a regimen that will reframe our vision of the world, ourselves, and other people. But reframing what we see begins with a change of heart. How do we learn to comprehend and receive unconditional love? And how does that help us exchange fear and resentment for gratitude and contentment?

Because the envious essentially see the world as a competition—a world where some outrank others—part of unlearning envy (or better still, preventing it) involves investing ourselves deliberately and deeply in activities with shared or common goods. Goods count as common when one person’s having or participating in them does not diminish others’ share. For example, common goods include enjoying music or a quiet walk together, appreciating a beautiful piece of art, being part of a good friendship, sharing conversation over a cup of coffee, learning something or gaining wisdom, or hiking to discover a breathtaking view. We benefit from investing ourselves in activities that involve others without the threat of one person having a greater share of goodness. Such experiences help us learn to appreciate goods outside a competitive frame of mind. Further, they can teach us how it feels to rejoice in something good and to rejoice in that good as shared with others.36 If all goes well, sharing in the pleasure of this experience will provide the envier with a taste of something better. From that perspective, envy’s characteristic displeasure over the good because someone else has it will seem petty and lackluster in comparison. A significant recurrent theme we will find when addressing all the vices (as with spiritual formation in general) is that attraction and attachment to genuine goods incentivizes detachment from their empty, false alternatives.37

Envy often gets entangled with the vice of vainglory, a vice defined by the excessive love of praise. Aquinas and Gregory believe that vainglory often gives rise to envy. Why? As we have seen in the previous chapter, when we are afflicted by vainglory, we seek the spotlight to win others’ approval. That acclamation is a conditional good, which grounds our fragile ego; in most cases, it is also comparatively and competitively sought. Vainglory intensifies our envy when our inferiority or others’ superiority in social comparisons gets displayed or widely publicized. Social media use only exacerbates this damaging dynamic. Both the envious and the vainglorious have a self-worth dependent on outdoing and outshining others, even if envy can be hidden in a way that vainglory usually is not. If others notice unfavorable comparisons with a rival, and offer judgments that reinforce our own—as first the Vienna court and later the priest hearing his confession did in Salieri’s case—envy and vainglory can feed off each other with doubly toxic effect.

If the tradition rightly makes this link between vices, a remedy for vainglory may help diminish envy as well. In this case, the envious can practice seeking others’ good, countering the vice’s malicious inclinations, in ways that no one else notices. The hiddenness of an act of love helps eliminate any competitiveness or temptation to have others measure our self-worth by comparing our benevolent efforts to anyone else’s. The focus of this discipline remains on doing loving things that would likely not catch others’ attention.38 Why? Because the envier needs to learn what it feels like to do something good for another, without her usual frame of reference in which her performance will be noted, tallied up, and made the basis of comparisons of worth between persons. Quiet benevolence also develops a habit of acting for others’ sake in ways that are not instrumental to engineering superiority or status for ourselves. Mother Teresa famously said, “If we could only remember that God loves [us], and [we] have an opportunity to love others as he loves [us], not in big things, but in small things with great love.”39 This seems like as good a description as any for actions designed to counter vainglory-exacerbated envy. I personally learned to recognize and gratefully receive this kind of love from my children when they were very young. Children simply take you as you are, having not yet learned the calculating acceptance that comes from having experienced rejection or needing to perform or outperform another to earn affirmation. The experience of giving and receiving such love can build a beachhead in the soul, creating an envy-free zone that gives us room to live and breathe again. Such encounters help us see through and resist envy’s temptation to perceive all goods possessed by others and all relationships to others as threatening our own worth.

We might worry that this acceptance of ourselves as unconditionally loved will make us complacent. Without competition and comparison, won’t we get soft and fail to strive for better things? The opposite may well be true. Like Eric Liddell’s love of running, living without envy removes the fear of failure and public exposure, which better allows us to stretch ourselves and take risks. Aquinas distinguishes envy from something he calls “zeal.” Like envy, zeal requires acknowledging our own lack or inferiority with respect to attaining some good. A zealous person can see clearly that another excels her. Because, however, the zealous person stands secure in God’s love for her—a love not contingent upon her performance or ranking of worthiness—she remains free to look at herself with honest humility and desire to be better. Because she operates under the conviction that the church is a body made up of many members, she does not see others as competitors for God’s esteem and favor (since his love and fellowship count as common goods, enjoyable by all). Rather, others are saints and fellow travelers who encourage each other along the way. With zeal, we see in our superiors and those we admire an attractive model to imitate with gratitude. Envy seeks to bring another down; zeal seeks to be lifted up and made better. Whereas envy distances others, zeal brings us into mentoring relationships within the communion of saints. Such mentors can help us get started, push us when our enthusiasm flags, rejoice with us when we make strides, and lift us up when we fall.40

As always, grace and the work of the Spirit empower our progress in virtue. We begin by learning to receive God’s unconditional love—a good that’s already our own—with gratitude. From that foundation, we can earnestly aspire to be all that God wants us to be, at his invitation, not out of our desperation. The sheer giftedness of grace and God’s unconditional love replaces envy’s bitterness with a sense of unshakeable blessedness. As Roberts notes, the envious prefer to view the world through the lens of what they are owed, or have accomplished themselves, rather than view what they have received as a gift. “I deserve better,” the envious say. Or “why isn’t my life as good as hers?” Or “I’ve been cheated if I don’t get that (and someone else does).” All sound like echoes of envy. But our God is a God of abundant love and goodness, not scarcity. The envious must unlearn their narrative of viewing themselves and what they have been given as “not good enough.” The practice of gratitude—naming specific quotidian gifts and blessings, large and small, and thanking God for the gifts of others that blessed us that day—can also give us fresh eyes to see and hearts to celebrate the goodness that has already been lavished on us as the beloved of God.41

The security of knowing we are already well-beloved grounds both our gratitude for all good gifts and our zealous strivings to be better. We have no reason to fear that we will not be lovable unless we measure up or excel each other. Envy’s evil eye shrinks our view of the good; a heart of gratitude enlarges it. The saints and those we admire as excellent do not threaten us as rivals but serve as beautiful inspirations. As their apprentices, we can see them not as obstacles or competitors but as experienced travelers leading the way. With their example and encouragement, we can reach beyond anything we would have imagined for ourselves. Buechner writes, “The Holy Spirit has been called, ‘the Lord, the giver of life,’ and drawing their power from that source, saints are essentially life-givers. To be with them is to become more alive.”42 They invite us to live joyfully from a grateful sense of God’s love and life-giving power. Unspoiled by the envier’s comparative lens, we can embrace our goodness simply as a blessing and a gift from a good Father. And from the fullness of that grace, we can both rest content in his love and eagerly follow the call to grow.

FURTHER REFLECTION

Whom do you envy? What does this say about what you value in yourself?

Can you think of a rivalry that damaged the people in it? Can you think of a rivalry that raised the competitors to a new level of excellence? What made the difference between the two cases? Which of your relationships are built on competition and comparison—and which are not?

Think of a story about the way someone has helped you develop your gifts and virtues. Did they lead by example, instruction, encouragement? Why is your attitude toward them admiration and gratitude rather than envy? How did they make you want to be better, and why didn’t you feel threatened by their obvious superiority?

FURTHER READING

Timothy Perrine and Kevin Timpe, “Envy and Its Discontents,” in Virtues and Their Vices, ed. Kevin Timpe and Craig Boyd (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014), 225–44.

Robert C. Roberts, “Humility as a Moral Project” and “Gratitude,” in Spiritual Emotions: A Psychology of Christian Virtues (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2007), 78–93, 130–47.

cKG

5 
Sloth (Acedia)

Resistance to the Demands of Love

The secret is that God loves us exactly the way we are and that he loves us too much to let us stay like this.

—Anne Lamott, Operating Instructions

Grace is costly because it compels a person to submit to the yoke of Christ and follow him; it is grace because Jesus says: “My yoke is easy and my burden is light.”

—Dietrich Bonhoeffer, The Cost of Discipleship

Laziness and Diligence

Picture a hairy, long-toed sloth hanging from a branch, headphones on, listening to “sloth motivational tapes.” A soothing voice murmurs, “Relax, take your time, what’s the hurry? Life goes on whether you’re asleep or not.” One of my favorite cartoons of sloth depicts this supposed vice in just this way.1 I say “supposed” because, on first glance, hardly anyone would think of sloth as a serious, much less deadly, sin. But why is this?

Perhaps it’s because we, like the cartoonist, typically think of sloth as laziness. Online shoppers can buy a sloth sleep mask, sloth onesie pajamas, more sloth T-shirts to avoid doing laundry, and a sloth yoga calendar (move slowly!) with a single click. Does laziness really rank with sins like envy and lust in its evil and destructive power? Since when was sitting on the couch watching reruns of The Office and munching on a bag of chips a moral and spiritual failure of the first order?

Our initial reaction might be to say that sloth doesn’t belong on the list of the seven capital vices. If putting it on the list in the first place didn’t count as an outright mistake, keeping it there now is certainly outmoded. We might agree with Evelyn Waugh’s twentieth-century assessment of sloth: “[‘Sloth’] is a mildly facetious variant of ‘indolence,’ and indolence, surely, so far from being a deadly sin, is one of the world’s most amiable of weaknesses. Most of the world’s troubles seem to come from people who are too busy. If only politicians and scientists were lazier, how much happier we should all be. The lazy [person] is preserved from the commission of almost all the nastier crimes.”2

Likewise, Wendy Wasserstein uses a conception of sloth as laziness and sheer inertia to construct a delightful parody of self-help literature in her 2005 book. On its jacket we read,

With tongue in cheek, Sloth guides readers step-by-step toward a life of non-committal inertia. “You have the right to be lazy,” writes Wasserstein. . . . Readers will find out the importance of Lethargiosis—the process of eliminating energy and drive, the vital first step in becoming a sloth. To help you attain the perfect state of indolent bliss, the book offers a wealth of self-help aids. Readers will find the sloth songbook, sloth breakfast bars (packed with sugar, additives, and a delicious touch of Ambien), sloth documentaries (such as the author’s 12-hour epic on Thomas Aquinas), and the sloth network, channel 823, programming designed not to stimulate or challenge in any way.3

In the 1987 Harper’s spoof of the deadly sins, the caption of the ad for sloth reads, “If the original sin had been sloth, we’d still be in paradise.” From scholarly to popular accounts of the vice, then, contemporary culture seems often to equate sloth with laziness, inactivity, and inertia.

On the other hand, we could accept the same description of sloth and conclude that it does deserve to be called a sin—even a serious one. Both sacred and secular audiences offer a version of this answer.

The sacred version goes like this: Sloth opposes the great Christian virtue of diligence—that powerful sense of responsibility, dedication to hard work, and conscientious completion of our God-given duties. What is hard work and dedication at its best, after all, but an expression of love and devotion? The telltale root of our word “diligence” is the Latin diligere, which means “to love.” Sloth, on this view, expresses pernicious apathy—comfortable indifference to duty and neglect of others’ needs. If you won’t work hard enough, then you don’t care enough. On this view, we should label sloth a sin not merely because it makes us lazy but because of the lack of love that lies behind that laziness.

Communities that value diligence in this way point to proverbial warnings such as, “Go to the ant, you lazybones” (Prov. 6:6), and the apostle Paul’s admonition to do useful work with your hands (1 Thess. 4:11–12), echoed a few centuries later by John Cassian’s call to manual labor in the monastery as a remedy for this vice. Especially if our work counts as a divinely appointed vocation, sitting around is not only useless; it’s thumbing our noses at God’s call. Hence the (in)famous Protestant work ethic. Notably, those who hold this view today do not seem nearly as concerned about the dangers of workaholism, often excusing or praising it under euphemisms such as “devoted service to the kingdom” and “commitment to ministry.” How can you say no to God?

Even outside religious circles, however, secular views serve to glorify the virtue of diligence and frown upon slothful “slacking off.” In the stirring words of Henry Ford, “Work is our sanity, our self-respect, our salvation. Through work and work alone may health, wealth, and happiness be secured.”4 Likewise, the Chronicle of Higher Education once put “discipline”—that is, how diligently we work—at the top of its list of the virtues necessary for success in graduate school.5 “In popular thought the ‘capital sin’ of sloth revolves around the proverb ‘An idle mind is the Devil’s workshop,’” writes Josef Pieper. “According to this concept, sloth is the opposite of diligence and industry; it is almost regarded as a synonym for laziness and idleness. Consequently, acedia has become, to all practical purposes, a concept of the middle class work ethic. The fact that it is numbered among the seven ‘capital sins’ seems, as it were, to confer the sanction and approval of religion on the absence of leisure in the capitalistic industrial order.”6

Since the modern, industrial era, diligence and “industriousness” have become pragmatic virtues aimed at profitability and professional success. When careers replace religion as a source of meaning, worth, and identity, laziness still carries a significant stigma. Our society measures personal worth in terms of productivity, efficiency, and the maximization of our potential. So we’d better get busy, or we’ll be good for nothing.

Love and the “Long Course of a Lifetime”

I should confess that when I started studying sloth, I felt fairly confident that it would be the one vice about which I would never have to worry. If anything, I reasoned, I’m too busy, hardworking to a fault, and something of a perfectionist besides. Carelessness, apathy, laziness, and lack of effort would definitely not be my problem! My fragile bubble of self-righteousness quickly burst, however, when I came across Pieper’s argument that busyness and workaholism were not virtuous but rather sloth’s classic symptoms. “Not only can acedia and ordinary diligence exist very well together; it is even true that the senselessly exaggerated workaholism of our age is directly traceable to acedia.”7 It turns out that both the apathetic inertia of the lazy person and the perpetual motion of the busy person can stem from a heart afflicted by this vice, according to the traditional conception. How can this be?

If sloth were simply laziness—a vice opposing the virtue of diligence—we would find that question impossible to answer. The full explanation requires returning to the original definition of this vice. Sloth—or “acedia,” as Cassian and other early Christians called it8—named a temptation that captured the experience of the desert fathers and mothers of the fourth century AD. Christian medieval theologians who followed in their footsteps further developed the idea. As we look back through acedia’s long history in the Christian tradition of moral and spiritual formation, the distance between our contemporary conception and acedia’s original spiritual roots might surprise us. This is why I prefer to use its older name.9 Retrieving the traditional definition will show us why we now tend to mistake acedia’s symptoms for ostensible virtues, and how originally acedia had to do more with being lazy about love than with being lazy about our work.

For the early Christians in the desert, acedia commanded much attention in the spiritual life. They universally categorized it as a spiritual vice, rather than as a vice with a “carnal” object, like lustful physical pleasures. Acedia could drive even a mature Christian to abandon his or her religious commitments altogether.10 Consider Evagrius of Pontus’s colorful fourth-century description of the vice:

The demon of acedia, also called the noonday demon (cf. Ps. 90:6), is the most oppressive of all the demons. He attacks the monk about the fourth hour [10 a.m.] and besieges his soul until the eighth hour [2 p.m.]. First of all, he makes it appear that the sun moves slowly or not at all, and that the day seems to be fifty hours long. Then he compels the monk to look constantly towards the windows, to jump out of the cell, to watch the sun to see how far it is from the ninth hour [3 p.m.], to look this way and that. . . . And further, he instills in him a dislike for the place and for his state of life itself, for manual labour, and also the idea that love has disappeared from among the brothers and there is no one to console him. And should there be someone during those days who has offended the monk, this too the demon uses to add further to his dislike (of the place). He leads him on to a desire for other places where he can easily find the wherewithal to meet his needs and pursue a trade that is easier and more productive; he adds that pleasing the Lord is not a question of being in a particular place: for scripture says that the divinity can be worshipped everywhere (cf. John 4:21–4). He joins to these suggestions the memory of his close relations and of his former life; he depicts for him the long course of his lifetime, while bringing the burdens of asceticism before his eyes; and, as the saying has it, he deploys every device in order to have the monk leave his cell and flee the stadium. No other demon follows immediately after this one: a state of peace and ineffable joy ensues in the soul after this struggle.11

Whereas the other temptations are like the sun which rises and sets, touching only one part of the soul, the noonday demon [akēdia] is accustomed to enveloping the whole soul and strangling the mind.12

Evagrius’s account sounds similar to Amma Theodora’s. Many credit her with giving the first description of the vice:

As soon as you intend to live in peace, at once evil comes and weighs down your soul through accidie, faint-heartedness, and evil thoughts. It also attacks your body through sickness, debility, weakening of the knees, and all the [bodily] members. It dissipates the strength of soul and body, so that one believes one is ill and no longer able to pray. But if we are vigilant, all these temptations fall away. There was in fact an ascetic who was seized by cold and fever every time prayers began, suffering from headaches, too. In this condition, the ascetic thought, “I am ill, and near to death; so now I will get up before I die and pray.” By reasoning in this way, the ascetic exercised self-discipline. When he finished prayer, the fever abated. So . . . the ascetic resisted, prayed, and was able to conquer unhelpful thoughts.13

What the desert fathers and mothers meant by “acedia” does imply a failure of effort, a failure linked to a lack of love—the Greek word they use (akēdia) literally means “lack of care.” Monks and nuns with this vice faced a grave spiritual malady, expressed in dejection or a feeling of oppressiveness or even disgust. A lack of physical effort, if anything, embodied symptoms of this deeper problem within.

Throughout Evagrius’s account (only briefly represented here), we should note two things: first, the desert community treated acedia as an extremely powerful and serious vice; and second, on their view, acedia threatens our fundamental commitment to our identity and vocation as Christians. Since it attacks the fundamental dedication of our life to God, acedia entangles us in a high-stakes spiritual struggle. We should not confuse it either with the comfortable pursuit of bodily rest or with the emotion of sorrow (and much less with clinical depression).14 Even though acedia sometimes drags us down with feelings of sadness, like all vices, it and its symptoms ultimately embody the cumulative effect of our own choices. Evagrius classifies acedia as a spiritual vice because it involves inner resistance and coldness toward our spiritual calling and its attendant practices. The desert fathers and mothers describe acedia as distaste, disgust, dejection, oppressiveness, and restlessness, because those with the vice experience staying committed to God as an intolerable burden. From the perspective of those with the vice, such a life of faithfulness offers nothing but daily drudgery and dreary discipline. They would much prefer to escape the claims of their religious identity and be free of its wearisome demands. In early desert spirituality, having this target for our aversion earned acedia a spot on the spiritual end of the chain of vices.

In the writings of Evagrius’s disciple, John Cassian, we see a shift in emphasis toward the external manifestation of sloth’s characteristic inner resistance. Cassian transplanted desert asceticism into the Latin West, establishing communal forms of monasticism more familiar to us today (e.g., religious orders that follow St. Benedict’s Rule). Religious orders expected each monk or nun to contribute to the spiritual and physical well-being of the community. Although the desert fathers and mothers also emphasized the spiritual importance of manual labor, they associated acedia more directly with “fleeing the cell” (the place and community in which you lived) than with evading work, as Cassian did. Cassian explicitly and extensively discusses the importance of manual labor as a remedy for this vice. Early on in its history, then, acedia picked up its association with physical inactivity and shirking manual labor. Cassian uses language like “laziness,” “sluggishness,” “sleepiness,” “inertia,” and “lack of effort” in his descriptions of acedia, such as this: “[Monks] overcome by slumbering idleness and acedia . . . [have] chosen to be clothed not by the effort of [their] own toil but in the rags of laziness . . . [and] have grown remiss as a result of sluggishness and . . . are unwilling to support themselves by manual labor.”15

Even for Cassian, however, idleness marks behaviors symptomatic of the inner condition of someone besieged by sloth. In this he echoes Evagrius’s description of the vice: “Once [acedia] has seized possession of a wretched mind, it makes a person horrified at where he is, disgusted with his cell. . . . Likewise it renders him slothful and immobile in the face of all the work to be done within the walls of his dwelling.”16 On Cassian’s account, physical inactivity or lack of effort is an effect or expression of our inner condition. “The work to be done within the walls of his dwelling” includes both spiritual practices and physical duties done on behalf of the religious community. Members who shirked this “work” in either form were distancing themselves from their identity and investment in that particular spiritual community bound together by love for God. Mere (physical) laziness would not necessarily indicate a case of vice. Rather, shirking our spiritual duty—whether this involves devotional practices or manual labor on behalf of others in the monastery—counts as acedia only if it signals inner discontent with and resistance to our spiritual calling.17

Both inner and outer manifestations of acedia link this vice to the daily demands of the spiritual life. Like Evagrius, Cassian takes acedia very seriously. It not only threatens to undermine a person’s fundamental identity as someone devoted to developing a lifelong relationship with God, but it also erodes the commitment to the religious community formed by that identity.18 Psalm 119 highlights the contrast between such devotion and acedia. In verse 28, the psalmist finds himself overcome with weariness and feels this oppression interfering with his daily meditation on God’s law, a signature spiritual practice expressing his love and faithfulness to God.

The Now and the Not Yet

The medieval theologian Thomas Aquinas gives an account of acedia that stands at the crossroads between the ancient ascetic tradition’s thoughts on acedia and modern conceptions of sloth as laziness. Aquinas explains why acedia makes the traditional list of great vices. He also explains how this vice reflects a lack of love that can be expressed both as laziness and as restless busyness. His definition needs some unpacking, though. He begins with the cryptic definition of acedia as “aversion to the divine good in us.”19 What does this mean?

An analogy might help. Imagine a typical husband and wife. In general, they have a relationship of genuine love and friendship. One evening, they quarrel at dinnertime and head off to opposite corners of the house for the rest of the night. They find it much easier to maintain that miserable distance and alienation from each other than to do the work of apologizing, forgiving, and reconciling. Learning to live together and love each other well after a rift requires giving up their anger, their desire to have their own way, their insistence on seeing the world only from their own individual perspectives. Saying “I’m sorry” takes effort, but by “effort” we do not mean simply that each resists the physical work of walking across the house and saying the words. Likely they see this most recent disagreement as just another wearisome rerun of the same thing they’ve been fighting about for years, and it doesn’t feel like they are getting any nearer to resolving it. What’s the point of going through the motions of apologizing one more time?

Do they want the relationship? Yes, they do—neither would renege on their commitment to each other (yet). But do they want to do whatever it takes to be “all-in”—do they want to honor the relationship’s real, sometimes tedious, daily claims on them? Do they want to learn genuine unselfishness in the ordinary daily task of living together? Sigh. Maybe tomorrow. For now at least, each spouse wants the night off to wallow in his or her own selfish loneliness. Their lackluster response is especially tempting when love takes unexciting effort, or when expressing it feels like a dull formality or an empty ritual. Sometimes they even shirk efforts that aren’t terribly taxing—like looking up from something diverting on their smartphone to offer a greeting when their spouse comes home from work. As time goes on, they progressively neglect the small ways of turning toward their spouse in love because such gestures become inconvenient or tiresome. They never seem to make much difference anyway.

Why do marriages and likewise long-term friendships make good pictures of what goes wrong in the vice of acedia? For all its joys, any intense friendship or marriage has aspects that can seem burdensome. We must invest not only our time but also ourselves to maintain and grow a relationship that flourishes rather than founders. Even more difficult than the physical accommodations are the accommodations of identity: from the perspective of individual “freedom,” cultivating a relationship of love will change us and cost us. It will push us to restructure our priorities. It may compromise our plans, small and large. It will demand sacrifice. It will alter the pattern of our thoughts and desires and transform our vision of the world. It’s not just “your life” or “my life” anymore—it’s “ours.” Seen in this light, we might judge that staying at arm’s length without engaging or investing would be easier and safer—even if ultimately unhappier—than risking openness to love’s transforming power and answering its claims on us.

Sometimes family life or long-term friendships feel euphoric and energizing; other times, they feel like unexciting routines or tedious work. To understand the dynamics of acedia, we need to see how staying committed to any love relationship takes daily nurturing, daily effort, and daily practices that build it up. Neglecting these will slowly break the relationship down. Nurturing grudges or selfish claims instead will erode it and make us resentful of a relationship that comes to feel like a suffocating trap. Kathleen Norris once commented that married love is “eternal, but it’s also daily, about as daily and unromantic as housekeeping.”20 Through consistent practices and disciplines, whether we feel like doing them or not, we renew and refresh our decision to love, keeping our commitment of love alive. The person with acedia resists the effort of doing day after day after day whatever it takes to keep the bonds of love strong and living and healthy, whether she feels particularly inspired about doing it or not.

If we think of our relationship to God as following the same pattern, we’ll be well on our way toward grasping Aquinas’s definition of acedia. Something must have gone awry in us if acedia’s signature move shrinks back in distaste from a divine good, instead of taking delight in it. What that good is, however, still requires a little more explanation.

“The divine good in us,” in Aquinas’s medieval-ish way of talking, means the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in our hearts—God’s life in us. Paul puts it this way: “I have been crucified with Christ; and it is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me” (Gal. 2:19–20). When God lives in us, the Spirit transforms our whole being: the old has gone, the new has come. By the power of the Spirit, we are to “clothe [our]selves with the new self, created according to the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness” (Eph. 4:24; see also Col. 3:10). Aquinas calls this grace “a beginning of glory in us.”21 That means acedia’s resistance targets nothing less than the gift of the Holy Spirit and our new identity in Christ. But how?

Christians know that God lives in our hearts by his Holy Spirit, empowering us to become new people. Our new identity in Christ, however, is both “now” and “not yet,” a promise and a present reality. Acedia gets a foothold in that gap. For now, God’s presence is a promise and a beginning; our new selves are created but not yet mature and perfected. Why not yet? Because the Holy Spirit doesn’t jump in and wave a magic wand to conjure up perfection overnight. The project of growing into our new identity takes a lifetime—and a lifetime of cooperation on our part. We call this “sanctification,” the process of being made holy. So in one sense, we are Christians, and in another sense, we are still becoming Christians. God is both “already” and “not yet fully” present in us. Our love for him has the character both of longing and of the restfulness of delight. Thus, it makes sense for Paul to encourage Christians to grow in faith and become more and more like Christ. We can’t just say, “I’m saved! Praise the Lord!” and then sit back and assume God is done with us.

Nonetheless, we cannot lose sight of the role grace plays in any progress we make in holiness. Becoming Christlike doesn’t mean working like crazy to improve ourselves and merit a place in God’s favor. Sanctification requires effort—not earning. Second Peter 1:3–7 clears up any misunderstanding here:

His divine power has given us everything we need for a godly life through our knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and goodness. Through these he has given us his very great and precious promises, so that through them you may participate in the divine nature, having escaped the corruption in the world caused by evil desires.

For this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith goodness; and to goodness, knowledge; and to knowledge, self-control; and to self-control, perseverance; and to perseverance, godliness; and to godliness, mutual affection; and to mutual affection, love. For if you possess these qualities in increasing measure, they will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. (NIV, emphasis added)

To revisit our earlier analogy, this picture of the Christian life parallels marriage: both involve accepting a new identity that needs to be lived out, day by day, for the rest of your life. A couple takes their vows on their wedding day, and from that moment on they are married. Yet being married—living out those vows by investing in and building their relationship—will take all their efforts, every day, for the rest of their lives. Their love and identity have both a now and a not-yet character. They experience love as both a gift and a life-transforming task. So, likewise, the person afflicted by acedia resists this transformation of identity by God’s love.

That transformation takes time. This explains why the tradition consistently places the vice of acedia in opposition to perseverance, faithfulness, and enduring commitment. Aquinas once argued that the demons can’t have acedia. On the mistaken “sloth-as-laziness” interpretation, we might think it’s because the demons are spiritual creatures who can’t be physically weary or get tired of making physical effort. On Aquinas’s view, however, it’s because their wills can fully love or reject God in a single moment of choice, unlike the (less perfect) human will, which grows to love or reject God through many choices and actions over the long course of a lifetime. Our love for God, our choice to be like him, must be lived out over and over, day after day. And the need to persevere in that commitment over time yields an opportunity for acedia to arise.

In summary, when we make acedia a habit, we turn our backs on the joy we should have over being united with God and committed to him in love. Instead of rejoicing at God’s presence in us, we chafe at it and resent the claims that God’s love makes on us. Rather than being willing to dedicate ourselves to developing and deepening the relationship, we resist its demands. Although acedia can appear symptomatically similar to chronic depression, it is not a matter of brain chemistry or psychological symptoms; it is a habit of the heart. Even though acedia typically weighs us down with feelings of sadness, like all vices it and its symptoms ultimately express the cumulative effect of our own decisions. Feelings don’t primarily define acedia, even if they arise from it and also reinforce it. Instead, the vice consists in well-entrenched and willful habits of resistance, even as love is fundamentally a series of choices that add up to a commitment.22

Aquinas’s take on acedia explains its traditional reputation as a serious vice. When acedia shapes our hearts, we resist our identity in Christ and his Spirit’s presence in us. We balk at God’s invitation to “be imitators of God” (Eph. 5:1) and to be transformed by him throughout the rest of our lives. If that’s not a description of a significant vice, it’s hard to see what else might count.

The War Within

At the same time, this very explanation raises hard questions: How could we possibly feel put out by God’s presence in our heart? What could make us unhappy about the gift of love that holds the key to our own happiness? We should count God’s love as the greatest gift that we could ever possess! Why would anyone who received it want to keep it at arm’s length?

Aquinas answers with the apostle Paul’s words in Galatians 5:17: the opposition of the Spirit to the flesh causes acedia.23 Initially, this seems to confuse the definition that we just clarified. Does his answer mean that acedia makes us prefer to be a lump of flesh on the couch while neglecting our spiritual duties? It sounds like he has returned to the mistaken view that acedia strikes when spiritual growth takes a backseat to bodily comfort. No wonder sixteenth-century artists like Hieronymus Bosch depict this vice with a wife scolding her slumbering husband for missing church.24 Is acedia nothing but laziness after all?

Aquinas and Paul both say no. The ancient as well as the medieval Christian tradition consistently identifies acedia as a spiritual vice. That means those with this vice do not primarily long for bodily goods like comfort and ease and pleasure, as the lustful and gluttonous do.25 Instead, when Paul makes the “Spirit-flesh” distinction, Aquinas notes, he means to contrast the old sinful nature with our new, redeemed nature in Christ. The battle lies not between body and soul, or between the physical and the spiritual. Instead, the old sinful self resists transformation into the new self enlivened by the Spirit. Letting go of our former identity and its familiar ways26 feels like dying—a project we might understandably feel like avoiding, even if a truly cruciform life requires it.

Spiritual battles take place on many fronts. Sometimes bodily pleasures or bodily weariness or even physical emotions like grief do make us more susceptible to sin. In the case of this vice, however, the resistance lodges first and foremost within our hearts. Acedia literally divides us against ourselves. We were made for a loving relationship with God. Acedia marks our character when we have chosen to reject that relationship as the way to find fulfillment and have instead tried to make something (anything!) else do its work.27 We attempt to settle for being less than what we truly are.

Think back to the marriage example with which we began—the way loving another person requires a thousand little deaths of our old individual selfish nature. This is the work that someone with acedia resists. On some occasions, the work may include bodily effort (so our resistance to love’s demands may be exacerbated by the physical effort required), but the two should not simply be equated. As we saw above, acedia cannot be defined as laziness, since people with this vice often pour tremendous effort and energy into the difficult task of distracting themselves from the unhappiness of their real condition. As we will see in the next section, people with acedia can be tireless, overworked, even restless. On the other hand, we should also not automatically equate overwhelming physical weariness with acedia: think of parents caring for a newborn infant. Their weariness results from their love and devotedness. The need or desire for real rest is not a vice.

Lazy about Love

In the film Groundhog Day, weatherman Phil Connors (Bill Murray) illustrates—at least by analogy—sloth’s resistance to the daily transformation required by real love.28 Through a mysterious turn of events, Phil finds himself waking up each morning, day after day, on February 2—Groundhog Day—reliving the same day over and over again in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania. A shallow and self-centered Phil first amuses himself with various hedonistic pleasures, since what he does each day apparently has no consequences. “Don’t you worry about cholesterol?” his coworker asks as he scarfs down a platter of doughnuts. “I don’t worry about anything anymore,” replies Phil with a smug chuckle. Soon, however, he embarks on the more serious project of getting his producer, Rita (Andie MacDowell), into bed with him. He spends a long succession of days making diligent and careful efforts to seduce her. While he finds her attractive, he does not really love her—at least, not yet. Rather than really changing himself, he painstakingly figures out by trial and error what she likes and finds appealing. Then he puts up a false front designed to get her to fall for him—he memorizes lines of French poetry, pretends to share her interests in world peace, and caters to her taste in ice cream. His elaborate schemes aim to manipulate her into giving him what he wants. Although she is initially taken in, Rita eventually sees through his strategy and rejects his advances, despite his persistence. “I can’t believe I fell for this!” she cries at him in anger. “You don’t love me! I could never love someone like you, Phil, because you could never love anyone but yourself!”

Phil responds to her repeated rejections with despair. He gives up on any chance at happiness. He sits on the couch all day, eating popcorn and drinking whiskey, apathetically watching the same episode of Jeopardy! for the hundredth time. He can’t get what he wants the way he is, but he also refuses to change. And so he remains at an impasse.

After a few unsuccessful suicide attempts (which the film depicts as simply more despairing escapist strategies), Phil finally tries a new tactic. He begins, little by little, to try to change into the sort of person Rita could love. Like his earlier seduction project, he must invest regular and consistent effort—day after day, he studies for a medical degree, he takes piano lessons, he reads French poetry, he extends a helping hand to the young and old. But these efforts, unlike his previous stratagems, genuinely change his heart and his character. Unlike the old Phil, he finds himself no longer bored and restless, filling time with self-centered diversions and empty pleasures. For he no longer pretends to be but really becomes—through consistent habit and daily discipline—not just a poet, pianist, and philanthropist, but a person capable of unselfish love. Phil finds himself no longer solely motivated by the desire to produce sexual results in his relationship with Rita. Instead, he has learned to care about others and to genuinely care about what is right and good—for its own sake. In the end, his transformed character attracts not only the affection of all the townspeople but also the love of Rita herself.

From escapism, restlessness, and self-indulgence, to boredom, apathy, and despair, Phil’s adventures in Punxsutawney show us the full range of acedia’s symptoms. The tradition names evagatio mentis (a restless, wandering mind) as a typical offspring vice of acedia—something Phil demonstrates in his incessant use of diversions and distracting entertainment to avoid the demands he cannot face. (Hence sloth’s lingering association with procrastination in the modern mind.) Pusillanimity, the vice with which this book began, also counts as a signature mark of acedia. We fail to heed the call to love God and follow him wholeheartedly when this would draw us out of our comfort zone. Instead, we shrink back, electing to stagnate rather than mature. Paul Wadell explains: “Pusillanimity is a dangerous habit to acquire because through it we not only lose our taste for what is truly good, but also grow comfortable with mediocrity. [Such a person] never has to grow, never has to change or be challenged because he avoids any goals or commitments that would call him beyond himself in sacrifice, goodness, or love.”29

Paradoxically, someone with acedia can be either a reluctant couch potato or a preoccupied person who will never sit down. Whether through laziness or busyness, when we have acedia we avoid changing, stretching, or giving ourselves. Love takes effort, and it transforms us. The real work Phil resists, then, is not the physical effort itself (of seducing Rita or of helping the townspeople) but the effort to cultivate and sustain a real commitment to love.

In a sense, then, it’s true that those with acedia are slothful—they want an easy spiritual life. They find detachment from their old selfish nature too difficult, painful, and burdensome, so they neglect to perform the actions that would maintain and deepen relationships of love. They harden their hearts toward any change that requires sacrifice or surrender on their part. Wanting love to come easily and comfortably means, for example, preferring the shallow sentiment of pop songs and picture-perfect Hollywood romances to loving the family you actually have to live with. While the euphoria feels wonderful for a little while, such feelings and momentary highs cannot serve as the substance of a real relationship, nor are they sufficient to maintain it over time. They come cheap but don’t last. All the talk about “forever” has to be anchored in commitments marked by daily decisions to keep on loving, even when it’s hard or unexciting or doesn’t yield a big emotional payoff right away. In a similar way, acedia lures us when we want the security of having God’s love without an ongoing willingness to be made new. A person with acedia essentially says, “I want God to love me, but being changed by his love is too hard. I want the comfort and security of being loved by God, without having to give back, sacrifice anything, take responsibility, or invest myself in the relationship over the long haul.” In the end, any thought of spiritual commitment makes someone with acedia feel grieved, oppressed, and resentful.30

Acedia has turned out to be a spiritual vice after all—a vice marked by resistance to the transforming demands of God’s love.31 Why does someone with acedia resist love? Because a love relationship marks an identity change and a corresponding commitment to daily transformation. Novelist Anne Lamott recounts the words of a wise old woman at her church who once told her that “the secret is that God loves us exactly the way we are and that he loves us too much to let us stay like this.”32 Those with acedia object to not being able to stay the way they are. Something must die for the new self to be born, and—as in Phil Connors’s case, or ours—it might be an old self to which we are very attached.

Here we can finally sort out our initial thoughts on acedia’s connection to sloth. We can rightly define the vice of acedia as resistance to effort, but not only, or even primarily, in the sense of being physically lazy or lazy about our work. Rather, rightly understood, acedia is resistance to the disciplined transformation demanded by our new identity in Christ and brought to life by the Spirit. The slothful like the comforting thought of being saved by love, of being God’s own. At the same time, they balk at the prospect of change—the (often slow) putting to death of the old sinful nature, which feels too much like suffering—and the disciplined commitment it takes to sustain that relationship of love over a lifetime.

People with acedia, like the couple in our earlier analogy, dream of being unconditionally loved without having to condition their own selfish desires in return. They prefer a perpetual honeymoon to fifty years of married faithfulness. Acedia makes us feel like Evagrius’s and Theodora’s ascetics, wanting to live for God in desert contemplation, but finding their zeal flagging in the heat of the day and pining instead for the comfort and worldly happiness of the life they left behind. Traditionally, Lot’s wife represented acedia, because even amid a lifesaving rescue, she was reluctant to turn her back on her old familiar home and the only life and friends she had ever known (Gen. 19). How many of us have felt like we need two angels to drag us out of Sodom, while we look back over our shoulders, wistfully pining for what we must leave behind? Are we like the people of Israel, poised to enter their homeland and promised rest in Canaan after years of restless wandering, who prefer to retreat to the drearily familiar desert than have to fight giants, even with God’s help (Num. 13–14; Deut. 1)? Pieper writes that the person with acedia “will not [fully] accept supernatural goods because they are, by their very nature, linked to a claim on [the one] who receives them.”33 As a U2 song puts it, “Love is not an easy thing; the only baggage you can bring . . . is all that you can’t leave behind.” The song title’s advice echoes what the desert fathers and mothers recommended (as well as what Lot’s wife and the nation of Israel should have done): leave behind the reassuringly familiar lives and old loves you are clinging to, and “walk on.”34

Because it’s ultimately about love—accepting God’s love for us along with the cost of loving him back—acedia earns its place among the capital vices. Human beings are made for love. If we resist it, we must deny who we are. In her reluctance to die to her old self, the person with acedia chooses to stunt her own spiritual growth. She prefers slow spiritual suffocation to the birth pangs of new life. Eventually, her habitual neglect bears fruit: she finds that she can’t fully accept the only thing that would ultimately bring her joy. She refuses the thing she most desires, and she turns away in revulsion, resignation, or bored distaste from the only thing that will fulfill her. In the perversity of her sin, she pursues self-made sorrow over joy, emptiness over fullness, restlessness over rest.

When describing acedia, it can be difficult to find the right balance between grace and discipline. Christian living should not become another long list of dull duties to discharge on pain of not really counting as committed children of God. Therefore, neither the desert ascetics nor Aquinas offers a litmus test of required work; in fact, they warn against measuring our devotion this way. Commitment is part of the package, but there is also joy in the journey (see Ps. 119). On the other hand, we shouldn’t carelessly assume that God will happily leave us where we are and never make any demands on our time or effort, never cost us any inconvenience or upset our priorities, never need to wean us painfully away from old attachments and desires. Love will require us to learn how to die to our old selves. Moreover, all love relationships have their fallow seasons, their drier and more difficult times. Sometimes love is work—difficult, daily work. We need not confuse or conflate sheer meaningless drudgery with perseverance through times when our energy and fervor ebb, though. In the latter case we are still fueling a relationship of love and investing ourselves for the long haul in something that ultimately brings fulfillment.

Restlessness and False Rest

Acedia sabotages sanctification—the transforming power of God’s love in us. By sapping our willingness to lay down our old loves for the sake of love of God, it saps our energy for good altogether, since God is the source of that strength. As a result, this vice has a twofold effect. First, it makes us want to avoid people and activities that bring us face-to-face with our identity in Christ—most obviously, things like prayer, worship, Scripture, and the sacraments. Second, however, it builds a cold wall between us and the demands of love for others. This explains sloth’s association with indifference and apathy—what Aquinas calls “sluggishness” when it comes to heeding the demands of justice. Love for neighbor flows from accepting God’s love.35 The commandment tells us to love our neighbors as ourselves. In refusing to accept God’s love for himself, with the commitments that brings, someone with acedia also fails to love his neighbors and stay committed to them. When Rita calls him out on his selfishness, saying, “You could never love anyone but yourself!” Phil replies honestly, “That’s not true: I don’t even like myself.”

Rooted in resistance to love’s demands, acedia typically manifests itself in two apparently opposite ways: despairing resignation (apathy or “false rest”) and desperate escapism (avoidance or “restlessness”). Cassian mentions both effects: “And so the true athlete of Christ, who wishes to engage lawfully in the struggle for perfection, must . . . contend on both sides against this most wicked spirit of acedia in such a way as neither to be cut down by the sword of sleep and collapse nor to be driven out from the bulwark of the monastery and depart in flight, even for a seemingly pious reason.”36 Like Phil Connors, most of us try first to escape. Cassian comments:

For the adversary [the devil] will the more frequently and harshly try a person who he knows, once the battle is joined, will immediately offer him his back and who he sees hopes for safety not in victory or in struggle but in flight, until he is gradually drawn out of his cell and begins to forget the reason for his profession, which is nothing other than the vision and contemplation of that divine purity which is more excellent than anything else and which can be acquired only by silence, by remaining constantly in one’s cell, and by meditation.

Thus it is that the soldier of Christ, having become a fugitive and a deserter from his army, “entangles himself in worldly affairs” and displeases “him to whom he engaged himself” [quoting 2 Tim. 2:4].37

If we can’t escape successfully, either in reality or in fantasy, acedia will then usually take the form of despairing resignation. When our attempts to flee our self-made predicament fail, we tend to sink under oppressive hopelessness and despair. Just before the film’s turning point, a pajama-clad Phil languishes in a recliner, immobile and unaffected, drinking himself into oblivion after Rita’s rejection. So the film outwardly depicts the inertia or false rest of his inner condition. Phil realizes that his old selfish nature cannot give him what he really needs, but he can’t bear the thought of facing new life either. He has no way out of the position his own choices and character have put him in. The tension and sense of being trapped that Phil experiences are feelings that often characterize this vice. We can’t escape the truth about who we are called to be, and yet we refuse to face it or live up to it. Reality feels unbearable. The slothful person tends to cope by mentally and emotionally checking out. This sort of resignation, however, should “not to be confused with laziness,” according to Buechner.

Lazy people, people who sit around and watch the grass grow, may be people at peace. Their sun-drenched, bumblebee dreaming may be the prelude to action or itself an act well worth the acting. . . . Like somebody with a bad head cold, [slothful people] have mostly lost their sense of taste and smell. They know something’s wrong with them, but not wrong enough to want to do something about it. Other people come and go, but through glazed eyes they hardly notice them. They are letting things run their course. They are getting through their lives.38

Inwardly, the slothful will not be moved, so they stay stuck between a self they cannot bear and a self they can’t bear to become. Their visible behavior—lethargy and unresponsiveness—reflects the deadened state of their heart.39

Given how intolerable such a condition is, if we think we can escape from sorrow, we will pour all our energy into any form of flight that shows promise, no matter how desperate. Phil’s life of shallow pleasure-seeking and seduction early in the film portrays just such an attempt to escape love’s demands. Life becomes a long project of distracting ourselves from the truth about our true identity and vocation to love. Augustine famously wrote that we will be “restless” until we find our “rest in [God].”40 Blaise Pascal agreed; he predicted that the best way to make people truly miserable would be to take away all their diversions, whether at work or through recreation: “Without [diversions] we should be in a state of weariness, and this weariness would spur us to seek a more solid means of escaping from it. But diversion amuses us, and leads us unconsciously to death.”41 Victor Frankl paints a similar portrait of the workaholic’s “Sunday neurosis”—the vacuum of meaning she feels on the day when her work does not fulfill its distracting function every waking hour.42 Sadly, this escapist strategy can take even ostensibly pious forms: we can spend our whole lives avoiding the demands of true discipleship, love, commitment, and change as we dutifully engage in a flurry of religious activities, volunteerism, and ministry opportunities. We find any excuse to not pay attention to God and remain in his presence. Like the aptly named Sebastian “Flyte” in Evelyn Waugh’s novel Brideshead Revisited, the restlessness that characterizes our escapist strategies betrays a heart not at peace. Deep down, we are fleeing what God’s loving call would require of us. Aquinas follows the tradition in noting acedia’s opposition to the commandment to rest on the Sabbath (Exod. 20:8–11),43 which requires that “the soul take rest in God alone.”44 Acedia’s listlessness and languor—its restlessness and false rest—are both resistant to true rest. Instead of leading us to trust that God’s call to love leads to life and freedom, acedia tells us to resist this call as oppressive. In resisting, we refuse Jesus’s invitation to rest in him: “Come to me, all you that are weary and carrying heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light” (Matt. 11:28–30).

The person with acedia ultimately insists on his own view of what is burdensome, following his own will in his own way, and seeking his own self-made pseudo-rest. His lack of love and commitment speaks of an unwillingness to surrender himself to the Spirit’s work and whatever transformation God is calling him to. In this resistance, the vice of acedia is nourished by its prideful roots. Unlike other forms of inertia, grief, or even depression, all of which can be mistaken for acedia, this capital vice results from a choice not to commit, a refusal to give ourselves wholly to God and then stay the course. Acedia’s response of “no thanks,” therefore, stands as the antithesis of Mary’s vulnerable “yes” at the annunciation, a “yes” that finds her faithful from the feedbox at Christ’s birth to the foot of the cross where she watches him die. Love is not an easy thing.

When our character is malformed by acedia, we try to find happiness for ourselves while evading the daily demands of self-giving love. We prefer our own diligent (or dilettantish) efforts to make ourselves happy with shortcuts and quick fixes. We avoid the onerousness of love’s demands by putting them off, trying to find fulfillment some easier way. By our prideful tactics, however, we cut ourselves off from the possibility of fulfillment and happiness. And so, says Gregory, acedia eventually brings us nowhere but the dead end of despair.

Although acedia can show itself in the total inertia of the couch potato or the restless distractions of endless activity, somewhere in between these two symptoms of vice lies a holy Sabbath for the heart that has given itself utterly to God. With such a heart, we will be overjoyed, not oppressed, by the thought that “love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all.”45

Stabilitas Loci

It’s hard to imagine what remedy to suggest for the vice of acedia. Like envy, it traps us in a self-perpetuating dynamic, prompting our refusal of the very thing required to cure it. The ancient strategy against acedia thus seems counterintuitive: rather than seeking some novel way to infuse life and breath into our relationship with God, the desert fathers recommended stabilitas loci—stability of place. To the ones who feel stuck and want to escape at all costs, they counsel, “Stay.” Evagrius writes, “You must not abandon the cell in the time of temptations, fashioning excuses seemingly reasonable. Rather, you must remain seated inside, exercise perseverance. . . . Fleeing and circumventing such struggles teaches the mind to be unskilled, cowardly, and evasive.”46 Elsewhere he writes, “Perseverance is the cure of acedia, along with the execution of all tasks with great attention and the fear of God.”47

In this discipline, the soul should mirror the body: “The spirit of acedia drives the monk out of his cell, but the monk who possesses perseverance will ever cultivate stillness.”48 David Brakke writes, “Listlessness [acedia] tempts the monk to give up the fight against the demons, and thus the primary way to resist it is to remain in one’s cell and hold one’s ground.”49 The psalmists also sound this refrain: “Be strong and take heart and wait for the LORD” (Ps. 27:14 NIV). In a nutshell, this discipline counters our desire to avoid or run away from what we’re called to be and do—whether through busy activities or through imaginative diversions.50 Instead, like the early desert Christians, we can push back against this vice by accepting and staying committed to our true spiritual vocation and identity, whatever it requires. Nuns and monks lived out their commitment to the religious life by willingly staying in their desert cell, rather than escaping to the city and the more entertaining world they had left behind. Leaving the cell was equivalent to abandoning their spiritual purpose and vocation. The decision to stay kept them engaged in the process of weaning themselves off their old self and worldly loves, while learning to enjoy the fellowship of God. Amma Syncletica said, “Just as a bird who abandons the eggs she was sitting on prevents them from hatching, so the monk or nun grows cold and their faith dies, when they go from one place to another.”51 To stay put physically implies staying put spiritually. In her book on the desert mothers, Laura Swan writes, “The desert journey is one inch long and many miles deep; inward is . . . the direction of travel.”52

Why did the fathers and mothers of desert communities describe acedia’s opposing virtues as courageous endurance, long-suffering, and perseverance? How is staying the course supposed to help? They knew that in the spiritual life, enthusiasm and energy will wax and wane, and periods of felt alienation from God or spiritual burnout will threaten. Given the human condition and our sinful nature—both our physical frailty and our fickleness of will—what we most need in countering the daily weariness of acedia is steady commitment and daily discipline, even when we don’t feel like it. A friend once compared worship to a military drill.53 Even if we are not personally uplifted in each and every instance, regular worship nevertheless cultivates and equips us with habitual right responses, forming our hearts and minds for future action and preparing us to react well even under pressure. Such rhythms of life shape what becomes natural to us.54 In our moral and spiritual practices, as in athletic training or musical rehearsals, we are apprenticed into a more virtuous life by enacting and embodying virtuous character in our present actions, for this is how we train our feelings to follow. Counselors, too, often recommend continuing to act “as if” in times of low motivation, because persevering in action creates dispositions to respond and feel appropriately as well. Praying the daily office or following the liturgy or keeping traditions alive works the same way—the point is to stay with something until it forms you. Similarly, St. Benedict’s Rule commends stability of place and loyalty to a particular religious community as the condition for learning to love.55

Perhaps in our age we are more prone than ever to expect too much of love as a feeling and too little of love as an ongoing choice and commitment. In our worship services and our family life, we expect emotional highs to carry us through life’s difficult times, when we would better expect engagement in daily practices to keep us faithful. Acedia tempts us to escapism and despair during times when we don’t feel like being godly or loving anymore. We want to abandon ship and give up, or to check out or drift away inwardly or outwardly toward something more comfortable or immediately comforting. “A light breeze bends a feeble plant; a fantasy about a trip away drags off a person overcome with acedia,” writes Evagrius.56 The remedy is to stick with stabilitas, because “the force of the wind does not shake a well rooted tree; [and] acedia does not bend the soul that is firmly established.”57 By remaining rooted, staying the course, and sticking to our commitments, we can resist acedia’s urge to get out or give up.58 Aquinas notes, and the writer of Psalm 119 concurs, that dwelling in the presence of God and seeking his face help us renew our taste for the sweetness of spiritual goods.59 With the Spirit’s help, we can move from half-heartedness to wholehearted love again.

Applying the wisdom of the desert today, we can see why our culture of busy escapism poses a serious spiritual danger: it too quickly provides an easy way out of this daily, disciplined effort of learning to love. Overcoming tendencies to acedia requires us to own up to the inner sources of our resistance to the demands of loving God. Temptation inclines us to grasp at a ready diversion any time we feel stretched or uncomfortable or just plain sick and tired of it all. We need a school of stability. Love flourishes in the context of daily deeds and constancy in our commitments, while acedia arises in a context of conveniently easy escape. As one prayerful petitioner put it, “Forgive me for letting love die when it demands action in order to live.”60 As the desert fathers knew, when acedia oppresses, we must stay the course, resisting the temptation to flee—in mind or in body. In the face of love’s demands, acedia wants the easy way out.

FURTHER REFLECTION

What surprised you most about the history of this vice? Why is this vice on the list of capital vices? Should it be?

In what areas of your life, or in what situations, are you most tempted to escape from the demands of love? What acts of love do you find oppressive or a daily burden? What form of sloth shows itself most in your life—“restlessness” or “false rest”? What forms of restlessness or busyness are you culturally rewarded for?

How will you intentionally nurture your relationships of love in healthy rhythms of work, worship, and rest? How can contemporary people like us practice stability?

FURTHER READING

Ruth Haley Barton, Sacred Rhythms: Arranging Our Lives for Spiritual Transformation (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2006).

Rebecca K. DeYoung, “Sloth: Some Historical Reflections on Laziness, Effort, and Resistance to the Demands of Love,” in Virtues and Their Vices, ed. Kevin Timpe and Craig Boyd, 177–98 (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014).

Dennis Okholm, “Stability: Staying Put to Get Somewhere,” in Monk Habits for Everyday People: Benedictine Spirituality for Protestants (Grand Rapids: Brazos, 2007), 89–98.

Material in this chapter draws from my “Resistance to the Demands of Love: Aquinas on Acedia,” Thomist 68, no. 2 (2004): 173–204; “Aquinas on the Vice of Sloth: Three Interpretive Issues,” Thomist 75, no. 1 (2011): 43–64; and “Sloth: Some Historical Reflections on Laziness, Effort, and Resistance to the Demands of Love,” in Virtues and Their Vices, ed. Kevin Timpe and Craig Boyd (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014), 177–98.

cPV

6 
Avarice

Possession and Mastery

For what good would their prosperity do them if it did not provide them with the opportunity for good works?

—Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics

Life is easier since I abdicated the throne. What a relief, to relinquish ownership of unownable things.

—Barbara Kingsolver, High Tide in Tucson

Now I had discovered the great pearl. To buy it I had to sell all that I had; and I hesitated.

—Augustine, Confessions

In the Harper’s magazine spoof of the seven deadly sins, the ad for avarice featured a picture of Santa Claus with the headline, “The world’s foremost authority speaks out on the subject of greed.” The letters piled in front of him all begin, “Dear Santa, I want . . .” Santa looks up over his glasses and comments, “Do you remember all of the things you told me you wanted as a child? Well, your list may have changed, but I bet it hasn’t gotten any shorter.” As Gordon Gecko’s (Michael Douglas) iconic “Greed Is Good” speech in the film Wall Street makes clear, greed is now such an American way of life that it’s hardly recognizable as a sin anymore: “The point is, ladies and gentleman, that greed, for lack of a better word, is good. Greed is right, greed works. Greed clarifies, cuts through, and captures the essence of the evolutionary spirit. Greed, in all of its forms—greed for life, for money, for love, [for] knowledge—has marked the upward surge of mankind. And greed, you mark my words, will not only save Teldar Paper, but that other malfunctioning corporation called the USA. Thank you very much.”1 The idea that greed fuels a capitalist and consumer economy counts merely as a recent way to justify it. Two millennia ago, in his Republic, Plato argued against opponents who claimed that the self-aggrandizing desire for more and more without limit worked as the principal motivation driving all human action. Only lack of power restrains our desire to take more than our share. Whatever era we live in, then, we might be so formed by greed that we consider our current condition normal. We can’t see why we would need more than minor lifestyle adjustments, scaling back on our most egregious excesses, to address this vice. Our greed has become both mundane and comfortable.

Scripture takes a hard line against greed, and it addresses this vice with striking frequency. Its warnings about money far outnumber those about sex. Prophet after prophet warns of the role greed plays in systemic injustice and the corresponding oppression of others, while the people of Israel (who are more like us than we prefer to admit) respond with remarkable callousness and with deaf ears. The most famous word about greed belongs to Jesus: “It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God” (Matt. 19:24; Mark 10:25; Luke 18:25). Affluent Christians might wonder, Why can’t we be rich in material wealth and rich in love for God? Abraham, that great hero of the faith, possessed great wealth by God’s own blessing, after all. Yet the apostle Paul labels the love of money as “a root of all kinds of evil” (1 Tim. 6:10)—a text that raised questions about whether avarice, instead of pride (“the beginning of all sin,” according to early translations of Eccles. 10:13),2 deserved the distinction of being the root of the tree of vices. In addition to these puzzles, the Christian tradition encountered its own share of internal controversies over whether owning possessions is good or bad, whether the desire to possess is natural or unnatural to human beings, and whether the Christian life demands moderate acquisition of wealth along with stewardship and charitable giving or the more stringent standard of voluntary poverty and total abandonment of possessions.

Avarice’s Inner Attachment

Before we tackle these larger issues, we need a definition of the vice itself. Common parlance identifies avarice or greed in a variety of ways—by disordered intentions and inner attachments, and by behavioral patterns of possession, for example, excessive acquiring, saving, and hoarding, as well as lavish spending. In this chapter, we will define avarice primarily by what it looks like on the “inside,” since the capital vices designate habits of the heart. When Jesus instructed the rich young ruler to leave all that he had to follow him (Mark 10:17–31), he was commanding a reordering of the man’s deepest loves. Clement of Alexandria writes, “The young man’s refusal to part with his possessions points to deeper character flaws that Christ desired to heal. Christ’s command is not, as some hastily interpret it, a command that he should throw away what he possesses and renounce his wealth. What he is told to banish from his soul are his notions about his wealth, his attachment to it, his excessive desire for it, and his anxieties [over it]—those thorns of existence which choke the seed of true life.”3

The inner condition of the heart gives rise to greed’s outer manifestations, which typically include excessive acquisition and excessive retaining of money or possessions. Aquinas’s definition bears this out: we are greedy when we excessively love or desire money or any possession money can buy.4 The greedy person’s overattachment to things wears many faces—an overflowing shopping cart or a single cherished purchase, a stock portfolio that is aggressive or conservative, a wallet full of credit cards or a safety deposit box with a few carefully guarded treasures, a garage full of expensive cars or a closet full of great deals. Greed can captivate the young, the old, and everyone in between. In all its varied expressions of gain and grasping, however, greed is a perverted love. Its profile has disordered desire written all over it.

Despite greed’s internal attachment problem, we shouldn’t underestimate the connection between external actions and the formation of inner thoughts and desires—between the “outside” and the “inside” of greed. As with any habit, this vice depends on actions wearing a groove or pattern in the longings of our heart. We can’t monitor greed simply by asking what we can rightly or wrongly take (or keep) in a given instance, therefore; we need to think incrementally and cumulatively. What if we instead asked this question: “If I keep handling possessions like this for the next ten or twenty years, what sort of character will I develop and what kind of person will I become?” In both our giving and our getting, greed corrodes the virtue of generosity and leads us to ignore the claims of justice. Contrasting avarice with these two virtues shows us both greed’s internal character and its outward expression, and the way they feed off each other. Moreover, in our exploration of this vice, we will note how our greedy tendency to trust in wealth for happiness and security undercuts our trust in God. Like the other vices rooted in pride, greed expresses the do-it-yourself method of finding happiness, instead of the contentedness of receiving the good things that God gives us and gratefully depending on his provision.

Aquinas opposes the vice of greed to the virtue of generosity,5 except that he uses this virtue’s Latin name: “liberality,” which comes from the same Latin root as the English word “liberty.” The linguistic connection gives us a hint: this virtue concerns freedom—in this case, freedom from attachment to money and the promise of what money can buy. The liberal person’s free and open attitude contrasts with the greedy person’s preoccupation with possessions and tightfisted grip on money as “mine.”

In Genesis 13:1–13, Abram and Lot illustrate the opposition between this virtue and vice. Abram gives Lot first choice of the land for his flocks. Lot selfishly chooses the best for himself without a moment’s hesitation, leaving Abram the desert (which Abram takes without complaint). Lot’s choice of the fertile valley, however, lands him in the city of Sodom. There he grows so attached to the good life that angels later have to drag him and his family away, even though Lot knows they face mortal danger if they stay. Lot’s greed holds him so fast in its grip that he even resists God’s drastic plan to rescue him, because it means leaving behind all his treasure—and the life he had built upon it. Abram, on the other hand, trusts in God’s provision, even when the present reality (no property except a tomb) doesn’t seem to match the promises.

When we have the vice of avarice, we are too attached to money and possessions—we care too much about them, as its own Latin root reveals (aveo, avere: to crave). The virtue of liberality also stands opposed, however, to carelessness about the real value of things and our responsibility for them. Aquinas calls this the vice of prodigality. The most dramatic example of the latter vice is found in Luke 15, the parable of the prodigal son. The prodigal’s use of money shows him too eager to acquire wealth (he wants to collect his inheritance before his father has died) and then too eager to spend it unwisely on things of ephemeral value. The prodigal treats money wastefully, for he does not care enough about it or value it enough. (Is it merely coincidental that the money he is careless with was not earned by him?) In contrast to these two vices, then, the virtue of liberality stands on the fine line between excess (too much attachment to money) and deficiency (too little attachment).6

As a depressing side note, Aquinas thinks that a single person can have both vices opposed to liberality—that is, both avarice and prodigality. If we are entrenched in a lifestyle of excessive and careless spending, we are likely to be regularly in dire need of getting more. It is too easy, once we are in debt or desperate for cash, to rationalize unjust acquisition and spend too much time longing to have more. So, in our dealings with money a literally vicious cycle is possible. (Perhaps there is a consumerist version of this cycle too: first we overacquire, and then we overtrash.) Nevertheless, the inner attitude behind prodigality leans much closer to the virtue of liberality, for the signature practices of both prodigality and liberality are parting with money and giving things away. Those with avarice stand apart, holding on to their possessions with an unyielding grip.

To put it differently, we can define liberal or generous people primarily by their inner detachment from material wealth and goods. They may care about their possessions, but they do not have an “immoderate love of possessing” them. The generous, according to Aquinas, thus show “read[iness] to give with pleasure . . . when and where they ought.”7 Generosity’s loose grip makes it second nature to give things away when the occasion arises. The morally mature, for whom virtue feels natural, take delight in giving, rather than regarding it as an onerous duty or a dull chore. The test of liberality is whether you find giving things away easy and enjoyable.8

The Heart of the Giver

We often confuse greed with simply possessing excessive amounts of stuff, just as we mistakenly reduce gluttony to eating an excessive amount of food. First and foremost, however, virtues and vices concern the condition of our hearts. Generosity’s measure is not how much is given away, in terms of the flat amount, but rather the way it is given and why. The manner of giving reveals the inner desires and attachments of the giver. In Luke’s Gospel the widow gives away her last two copper coins out of devotion to the Lord, and Jesus commends her (Luke 21:1–4). Her contribution couldn’t cover the cost of a single church bulletin, but even in her poverty, her love and devotion made her willing to give. Likewise, the Gospels recount the costly gift of a newly cut tomb for Jesus’s body, given by a rich man, Joseph of Arimathea (Matt. 27:57–60). His generosity shows not (or not merely) in the size of the gift or the wealth of the giver but in the readiness to give what he does have to God, even at possible risk to himself. Aquinas quotes both Aristotle and Ambrose, the bishop of Milan, to reinforce this point: “The Philosopher says (NE iv.1): ‘Liberality is proportionate to a person’s . . . means, for it consists, not in the quantity given, but in the habit of the giver’; and Ambrose says (De Offic. I) that ‘it is the heart that makes the gift rich or poor, and gives things their value.’”9

Unfortunately, we can readily use this point to make excuses justifying our refusal to give enough or to give up the excessive things we own. If we are used to having too much, even giving up luxuries feels like a sacrifice. Like a Lenten fast in which we deem it adequate to give up dessert (a luxurious surfeit) instead of the main meal (basic sustenance), does what we give away consist merely of the leftovers we would have garage-saled anyway? Compare the counsel of Aquinas: “It is enough for people to have only a few things, so liberal people are commendable because in general they give away more than they keep.” As if it were obvious, he explains that God gives some people excess riches “so that they might have the merit of good stewardship.”10 Aquinas assumes that the point of owning stuff is to use it for the sake of serving. Do you look at your paycheck that way? How much of the income we use to upgrade our own lifestyle could and should be used to meet others’ needs? According to the early church fathers, our stewardship of all material goods imitates God when it serves the common good. To give is to offer the world a picture of God’s heart: “Whatever belongs to God, is for the common use of all, nor is anyone excluded from his benefits and gifts, nor is the human race prevented from equally enjoying God’s goodness and generosity. Whoever owns property and follows this example of equity, sharing his returns and fruits to his brothers [and sisters] and showing himself fair and just with his gratuitous bounties, is an imitator of God.”11

Henri Nouwen once said, “Perhaps nothing helps us make the movement from our little selves to a larger world than remembering God in gratitude.” Even Aristotle, quoted at the beginning of this chapter, begins his discussion of how friends and fellow citizens love each other with the comment that our prosperity is for others. Strikingly, he assumes without argument that our possessions are meant to be shared. To contemporary Christians, this isn’t obvious at all. Our cultural formation makes cultivating such a mind-set a daunting challenge.

What makes it so difficult to give things away? What drives acquisition of and attachment to material goods? Aquinas names two hindrances to generosity that make it hard for us to detach. The first, he says, is having sweated for it. If we have earned something ourselves, we will find it harder to give away. Children might find it enjoyable to put Mom’s and Dad’s money in the offering plate at church or shop with a parent’s credit card for back-to-school clothes. When, as teens, they begin to dispense their own meager, hard-earned income, suddenly they feel much less eager to give. We justify our actions accordingly: the little we give, from the little we earn, will make no difference anyway; or, we reason, prudence demands that we first make sure we have enough to save or to cover expenses, and then we give from what remains. Of course, these rationalizations miss the point of the offering as a remedy for the inner attachment of avarice. The point of the practice goes beyond succoring the needy and extends to reshaping our desires and correcting our myopic view of where money is from and what money is for. God doesn’t require imprudence in our giving; rather, he asks for our trust. Our regular practice of giving cultivates freedom and inscribes dependence on God in our hearts.

In the case of the first hindrance, the more something feels like our own, the more painful giving it away will be. In Aquinas’s words, “The avaricious person takes pleasure in the consideration of him or herself as a possessor of riches.”12 The greedy person values the view of herself as the master of her stuff, sufficient to satisfy all her wants and needs. “I earned this, so it’s mine. I am the owner.” Earning and owning make us feel important and in control of our lives. Giving stuff away relinquishes those claims. It’s much easier to be generous with other people’s money, since it’s always easier to judge in their case that they don’t need it or that it won’t cost them much to give it up. Similarly, we can swallow our anger more easily when things that get wrecked or misused or neglected or lost belong to someone else (“It’s just a rental”), because we invest our egos and identities in the things we earn and buy and count as our own.13 When we let avarice take root, we don’t merely want to have more; each of us wants things to count as mine. But in the end, do we possess our possessions, or are we possessed by them?

Along with the excessive attachments that come with having earned something ourselves, Aquinas mentions a second hindrance—namely, the experience of poverty. The vulnerability and anxiety of living with scarcity can deeply shape the habits of our heart and deform our patterns of saving and spending. Often we are not so much attached to the particular things themselves as we are to what they mean or represent to us: “If I have this, then I will have enough; I will have security from want; I will have protection against fear, need, and worry.” Many members of the generation that grew up during the hard years of the Great Depression lived under the shadow of the experience of need for the rest of their lives. We say we believe in a bountiful God, but we do not live like we believe it. The fear of want dies hard.

Developing generosity in the present requires adequately trusting God for the future. My grandfather taught me this—not by words, but by example. His family was too poor to pay for his tuition at the local Christian high school. In a moment of boldness, he went to the principal and told him he wanted to attend school but couldn’t afford it. The principal promptly admitted him, on one condition: “Remember us someday.” The principal’s act of generosity—as an investment in an uncertain future, likely stretching an already tight budget—expressed his trust in the Lord’s provision. His trust was rewarded. My grandfather was still donating generously back to that school until his death many decades later.

It’s true that in our giving we always need to allow adequate provision for ourselves and those under our care. Aquinas and others insist upon this point, with respect to both spiritual and temporal goods.14 Taking due care of our own needs shows practical wisdom and rightly avoids prodigality. The difficulty comes when we try to discern what counts as adequate provision and what counts as excess. The Christian ascetics of the fourth century maintained a solitary existence in the deserts of Egypt, broken only by trips to the market to sell the baskets they made and in turn to use the money to buy bread and oil. The elders of that community counseled selling below the market price and giving alms with any money left over. Bringing a profit home would only tempt them to regard their store of coins as security for the future, instead of learning daily reliance on God. Evagrius knew how vulnerable this left them; in this passage, he exposes greed’s mind games: “Avarice suggests a lengthy old age, inability to perform manual labor, famines that will come along, diseases that will arise, the bitter realities of poverty, and the shame there is in accepting goods from others to meet one’s needs.”15 This word from the desert challenges our own tendencies to stockpile against an uncertain future and our prudent justifications of that behavior. How then can we translate desert asceticism into our own daily practices? How do we loosen our greedy grip on what we think we need and want and deserve? Most importantly, what practices of outer detachment will be required to transform this view of things and the inner attachments it drives? Cassian teaches that total renunciation of possessions must include renunciation of the heart: “Just as the words of the Gospel declare that even those who are not soiled in body have committed adultery in their heart, it is also possible for those who are not weighed down by money to be condemned along with the avaricious for their disposition and attitude. For it was the opportunity to possess that they lacked, not the desire, and it is the latter, rather than [poverty itself], that God is always wont to crown.”16

Avarice in Action

Greed’s internal attachment reveals itself in both our getting and our giving. We probably picture avarice in the familiar form of misers such as Ebenezer Scrooge, whose possessiveness blinded him to others’ need. But our own excessive acquisition and consumption (also in the face of others’ real need)17 likewise reveals greediness, even if our culture socially sanitizes this form. “The one who is greedy is always in want,” writes Horace.18 Greed never says “enough.” The desires of those with liberality, by contrast, observe a rule or limit, regarding both what they want to acquire and what they retain for themselves.

James Twitchell calls luxury an ever-escalating category of things that are “totally unnecessary.”19 How much stuff is enough? When my husband and I married, we lived in a small duplex. Given the cheap price of rent, we weren’t surprised by the old, run-down building. Still, we found ourselves shocked and dismayed by the size of the closets. One cubicle per bedroom, they measured barely deep enough for a single pair of shoes and about an eighth of the size of any closet we had ever seen. Our workout clothes alone filled one of them. “What did the people who built that house ever do with all their clothes?” we wondered. Then I recalled my mother telling me that when she grew up, she had two dresses to her name—one for school and one for church on Sunday. That would have fit in our closet with room to spare! While our current home doesn’t have a walk-in closet, it does have double closets in every room and a cedar closet in the hallway. They are all full.

A professor once devoted a course to the topic of Christian discipleship. He challenged his students to consider Jesus’s example of voluntary poverty, a lifestyle the professor himself had adopted and lived out for many years. The course so inspired two of his students that they gave away all their clothes except two shirts and two pairs of pants, resolving to live according to their needs instead of according to the standards of endless acquisition and consumerist excess. Their commitment was notable and praiseworthy, to be sure—it even made the campus newspaper. But it bears mentioning that what they defined as voluntary poverty entailed living at or above the level of many people for most of human history. Not to mention that their parents were still footing the six-figure bill for their college tuition. Yet when I ask my students how hard it would be for them to give up all but two outfits, they regularly reply, “Nearly impossible.”20

When Aquinas and Augustine discuss “the needs of this life,” whether in the context of food or money, they emphasize not just what bare subsistence requires but also what is necessary for living a life befitting human beings. Pope Francis, for example, radically scaled back on opulence and expenditure when he assumed the papacy, but he still wears clothing appropriate to the dignity of his office. And your home might be large enough to welcome others around the table in hospitality, even if this exceeds the demands of mere shelter. (Alternately, you might find common spaces—at church or a local park—that serve hospitality equally well without the need for a larger home.) Artistic decoration and landscaping make places like cities, homes, and churches lovely and enjoyable, beyond mere functionality. So practices that respect the needs of a fully human life are not one-size-fits-all, calling us all to live on crusts of bread with bare walls and threadbare clothes. Rather, they point us to a meaningful and beautiful existence lived in freedom from being dominated by our desires for stuff. The most important question is, Are we moving closer to open-handedness and lightness of heart, or closer to enslavement? Our possessions should serve our needs and our humanness, instead of our lives revolving around service to our possessions and being driven by our desires for them. What is “needful,” even in this more expansive sense, guides us as a limiting rule, so that our acquisitiveness does not expand without any bounds.

Even if we do not hear a call to a life of voluntary poverty, however, we also needn’t be either misers or shopaholics in order to think twice about our buying and spending habits and what they reveal about the desires and attachments of our hearts. Consider the following thought experiment: Imagine that others had access to all your financial records and spending habits (investment portfolios, savings, checkbook registers, credit card bills, tax returns, receipts, cash flow, etc.) but knew nothing else about you. What sorts of judgments could they make about your character, your loves, your values, your excesses and deficiencies, your ideals and identity? Greed begins in the heart and mind, but it does not necessarily stay hidden inside. Patterns of getting and giving can reveal our hearts’ deepest loves and priorities. As another challenging exercise in self-examination, calculate how many hours a week you spend thinking about buying or acquiring things—by going to the mall, browsing the internet, working longer hours to finance a purchase, or imagining ways to upgrade your current lifestyle by watching home improvement shows or even just observing friends and neighbors. Are your feelings of frustration or depression temporarily alleviated by buying something for yourself? Does earning more money or acquiring more things create a renewed sense of power over your life? In Counterfeit Gods, Tim Keller recommends diagnosing our idols by noting what we spend our free time fantasizing about and imagining ourselves having—or what makes us intensely angry or despairing when we can’t have it.21 In other words, we can recognize our excessive attachments in both our dreams and our broken dreams. These exercises in self-examination may take us beyond the stereotypical pictures of avarice we clearly avoid and closer to confession of our own avaricious tendencies to seek more things because it feels so good to call them “mine.”

Seeking Justice, Loving Mercy

Greed’s inner clutch on the heart can corrode the virtue of generosity and dampen our eagerness to give freely. At its worst, however, greed also incites in us the obstinate refusal to meet even the demands of basic justice, as we opt instead to keep more than our share. The greedy acquire and hold on to possessions even to the point of depriving others of what they deserve or need. Greed causes indifference toward those in want. In this case, avarice undermines the virtue of justice—giving others their due.

Sometimes the greedy hoard more than their share out of malice; other times, out of sheer thoughtlessness. The Greek philosopher Plato called justice (dikaiosunē) the supreme virtue. Opposing it stands the vice of pleonexia—always grasping for more, and more than our share, with no regard for anyone but ourselves. Despite the divide of two millennia between Plato and the present day, contemporary people (like my students) seem instantly to understand what he means. Avarice can lead us to trample justice when we want what rightfully belongs to another, so that we will do anything to get it, even when we don’t need it. Some cases—like elbowing out a sibling for the last piece of pizza—may seem run-of-the-mill, but avarice can also turn murderous, as the story of Naboth’s vineyard illustrates (1 Kings 21). The biblical prophets have plenty to say about how the lifestyles of the wealthy and “religious” cause oppression of and heartlessness toward the poor, a critique that could just as easily be applied to twenty-first-century first-world nations as to ancient Israel. “In this way avarice is a sin directly against one’s neighbor, since one person cannot overabound in external riches without another person lacking them, for temporal goods cannot be possessed by many at the same time.”22 When our mundane buying habits entangle us in systems of exploitation that turn a blind eye to the suffering of our sisters and brothers, we grow more like the rich man who doesn’t even notice Lazarus groaning and begging at his doorstep: “his prosperity serve[d] as a physical, emotional, and spiritual anaesthetic, numbing him to the horrors of his environment.”23 Our overgrasping undercuts others’ real needs, while also hardening our hearts.

We have already seen that avarice has many symptoms and offspring vices, revealing itself in the time we spend planning what to buy and how to acquire things, and the belief that we will be happy and content if only we can purchase some new thing. It is expressed in the anxious restlessness we feel until we can acquire something and in the consumerist conviction that acquisition will quiet that feeling. In its characteristic callousness, however, avarice does more than ramp up our own wants; it also blithely tramples down others’ needs. It lurks behind the fantasies and desires that move us to rationalize lifestyles in which we regularly and programmatically take more than we need or take more than our share, regardless of the collateral damage to those already living without enough. Justice has faded from our view. How can we find our way back to contrition if we can’t see ourselves clearly or, even if we do see ourselves clearly, if we find that we don’t really care?

In response, the church fathers push a persistent line on the common good that undercuts our assumptions about what we really own. Basil, in a sermon on the parable of the rich man who builds bigger barns, tries to shake the avaricious from complacency over their injustice. When your acquisition or keeping deprives another person of what they need, he says, “It is the hungry one’s bread that you hoard, the naked one’s cloak that you retain, the needy one’s money that you withhold. Wherefore as many as you have wronged, you might have succored.”24 Or, as a contemporary paraphrase might put the point: “The money for your expensive coffee this morning belonged to the child who came to school with no breakfast. The new winter coat hanging in your closet next to four other coats (now out of style) belongs to the homeless person you passed on your way downtown last weekend. And the money you have saved for retirement would make the difference between subsistence and starvation for the sweatshop workers who made your favorite hiking boots (worn only twice). Wherefore as many as you have wronged, you might have aided.”

Let’s reframe this thought beyond the usual guilt trip; Basil is trying to teach us a different way of seeing the world. The generous are looking for opportunities to give because they recognize what they have themselves received as a gift. For example, the more generous your heart becomes, the more expansive your vision of your education (and the earnings that come with it) also grows. Perhaps your education, like mine, would not have been possible without your parents’ provision and the stability of your family (modeled through generations), which relied in turn on the safety of your neighborhood and the peace provided by those who protect your nation. Likewise, your successes may be partly due to your spouse’s sacrifice and support, not to mention the encouragement, expectations, and examples you found at your church, school, and elsewhere. The list of circumstances that made possible your education and subsequent job opportunities could easily go on. But here is a sobering point to consider: the same talent that earned you a satisfying career and higher salary lies wasted in less auspicious circumstances. Those who are generous have a larger perspective that also enlarges their hearts.

Perhaps we don’t care if our spending and acquiring deprive someone else, especially if that someone else is safely out of sight. (This might be a good reason to seek more personal encounters with those in real need.) Our not caring comes as no surprise, given that the tradition identifies a characteristic offspring vice of greed as “insensibility to mercy”—the callous hard-heartedness we mentioned above.25 In a way, apathy greases the slide toward injustice: not caring makes it easier to injure outright. From Cassian to Gregory to Aquinas, Christian thinkers taught that avarice’s bitter fruits included being willing to deceive, use, harm, and even betray others for the sake of money. Think of the way otherwise perfectly ordinary families can tear each other apart in court, or refuse to speak to each other for years, over their entitlements to a lucrative inheritance. Cassian likewise analyzes Judas’s betrayal of Christ as motivated by avarice: “He no longer secretly stole from the purse but sought to sell the Lord himself.”26 In other words, when avarice gets its grip on us, the excessive desire to possess trumps even the most fundamental demands of justice and love of neighbor.

What’s the Use?

As with all the vices, greed reveals our hearts’ longing for a good thing gone wrong. We need not label money and possessions as evil; in fact, they count as useful goods. Abundance has its place in human life: fasting does not preclude feasting. Neither should simplicity and stewardship imply that living on bare necessity is the only way to avoid avarice. The fact that a single Steinway concert grand piano costs enough to feed everyone below the poverty line in a small town for months does not give us reason enough, all by itself, to stop buying Steinway pianos (though it may give us pause). However, this view of luxuries sees, in a way that greed does not, that the value of possessions can reach well beyond the monetary realm.

People with well-entrenched avarice are willing to use people to serve their love for money, rather than using money to serve their love for people. Even King Midas stopped short when his greed for gold cost him his daughter—for she, unlike his gold, held a value for him that was beyond all measure. Because he loved her, he could not stand to see her used to satisfy his greedy desires. It is a chilling sign of the depths of his avarice that he needed the threat of a human sacrifice to shake him out of his craving for more.

In the film Ocean’s Eleven, Danny Ocean (professional thief, played by George Clooney) and Terry Benedict (casino owner, played by Andy Garcia) both pursue wealth, greedy for gain. But in a telling scene near the end of the story, Danny’s former wife, Tess (Julia Roberts), now Terry’s partner, secretly watches an exchange between the two men via security cameras. Danny asks Terry a pointed question: if Danny could tell him who had just robbed his casino and could get his money back, would Terry give Tess up in exchange? Coldly and without hesitation, Terry says, “Yes.” The difference between the two men suddenly becomes crystal clear, for Danny would—just as unhesitatingly—leave all his illicit gains to have Tess back. What do you love most, and what means will you use to get it? How we handle money regularly reveals the answers in our hearts.

Aquinas describes greed’s object as money or as whatever things money can buy that are considered useful or profitable.27 Lust and gluttony, on the other hand, desire things insofar as they give us pleasure. It is worth pondering how much of our avarice drives our default tendency to value everything, and indeed everyone, in terms of instrumental value. When the older generation laments that they feel like only a burden to society because they can no longer perform productive labor, and because their medical care constantly drains others’ material resources, have they internalized a system of value that measures people’s true worth in terms of a bottom-line, cost-benefit analysis? Time spent with children also counts as unprofitable in more than one sense, for childcare is usually underpaid or unpaid, and we have precious little in the way of tangible payoff to show for such investments. The use of financial transaction metaphors to describe personal care for other human beings points to a conceptual framework tilted toward avaricious calculations of value. The salary charts for service professions, especially compared to the salaries of those who work in financial fields managing investments, also point not so subtly to implicit assumptions of what we value most. Social systems and structures measure human beings (including ourselves) by their usefulness, and they measure usefulness by the production of things and the possession of money. Greed now invades human life and its value in this subtler way as well.

Pope John Paul II argued that avarice’s pernicious tendency to measure all else in terms of monetary value has successfully infiltrated contemporary society. It lies in the background, shaping the implicit assumptions behind our explicit actions and decisions. He criticized contemporary culture for valuing having things over being human persons—with all the moral and religious significance personhood includes. The darkest form of avarice, according to his view, has as its “only goal . . . the pursuit of one’s own material well-being. The so-called ‘quality of life’ [of human beings] is interpreted primarily or exclusively in terms of economic efficiency . . . [as well as] functionality and usefulness.” If society judges everything ultimately by its monetary or material value, then people who cannot contribute economically are too easily seen as not valuable, period. Even ending life becomes an attractive alternative, John Paul II argues, when “justified by the utilitarian motive of avoiding costs which bring no return and which weigh heavily on society.”28 In communities shaped by this more subtle form of greed, the weak, the very young, the disabled, and the elderly rank as the most vulnerable. But then, aren’t we all in one of those categories sooner or later? Making money the measure of all things, John Paul II continues, really functions as a cover for making human beings—the makers and controllers of money—the measure of all things, including the value of other human beings. This instrumentalization and commodification of human beings by others reveals a deeper connection between avarice and injustice than a particular individual’s impulse to steal or hoard. When avarice moves us to betray each other’s humanity, we betray our own humanity as well. A striking scriptural illustration of this phenomenon is Ahab and Jezebel’s murder of Naboth to acquire his vineyard. The story concludes with this telling line: “Indeed, there was no one like Ahab, who sold himself to do what was evil in the sight of the Lord, urged on by his wife Jezebel” (1 Kings 21:25, emphasis added).

Avarice, like all the vices, pervades our outlook, attitudes, reactions, and emotions even before it shows up in our actions. When we are greedy, we operate with a deeply self-centered perspective on our possessions: we think of them as our own, for us to use as we see fit. In his book Being Consumed, William T. Cavanaugh articulates the deeper picture that the avaricious are missing.

In the Christian tradition, detachment from material goods means using them as a means to a great end, and the greater end is attachment to God and to our fellow human beings. . . . In [this] tradition, the use of material things is meant to be a common use, for the sake of a larger body of people. We do not help each other as individuals but as members of one another. . . . The reason we do not cling to material things is precisely because of our attachment to others. We must constantly be ready to relinquish our claim of ownership, and to use our goods for the common good of the whole body.29

Similarly, Paul Griffiths traces the notion of commonness to Augustine, who argues that only God owns anything, properly speaking. Our yearning to privatize, possess, sequester, own, and master things reduces to both fantasy and idolatry.30 Everything comes to us as a gift from God; our job is to steward things well for him, in order to serve the good of all. In the mass shooting in Las Vegas in 2017, strangers and bystanders offered their cars to transport the wounded and dying to the hospital, and people used whatever fencing was on hand at the venue to create impromptu stretchers; similarly, the film Dunkirk depicts the British merchant marine using fishing boats of all shapes and sizes to rescue their stranded countrymen on the shores of France. In an emergency, we seem to find it natural to treat our things as common goods, meant to be used to serve whomever has the greatest need. In these moments, the things in our keeping truly become instruments of love.

A “Capital” Vice

“The love of money is a root of all kinds of evil,” says Paul (1 Tim. 6:10). Why? Because money is so attractive that we will commit many sins to acquire it? Or because money gives us the power to satisfy any sinful desire—and then get away with it by buying influence or immunity?

Even more, perhaps, loving money nourishes further evil when money itself becomes an overarching goal. Aquinas argues that material wealth allures us because it gives us the illusion that we are self-sufficient—and therefore serves as a powerful incentive to deny our need for God.31 Who among us would turn down the chance to make ourselves comfortable and secure in this world? The possession of money represents this self-sufficiency and the power to safeguard it. In this way, it is a convenient and much less demanding replacement for God. As Frederick Buechner once put it,

The trouble with being rich is that since you can solve with your checkbook virtually all practical problems that bedevil ordinary people, you are left in your leisure with nothing but the great human problems to contend with: how to be happy, how to love and be loved, how to find meaning and purpose in your life. In desperation the rich are continually tempted to believe that they can solve these problems too with their checkbooks, which is presumably what led Jesus to remark one day that for a rich man to get to Heaven is about as easy as for a Cadillac to get through a revolving door.32

Greed, the disordered attachment to possessions and possessing, is the root of all kinds of evil, because of its own roots in pride.

This last explanation cuts deeper than we might first think. Pride anchors and nourishes greed, just like all the other deadly sins. We find it much easier to acquire the means to provide for ourselves than to trust God to provide. In pride-fueled greed, we desire to take over God’s role and make sure we get enough of what we think we need. Augustine identifies the link between power and greed as libido dominandi, which designates the desire for mastery and domination over our lives and over others—the antithesis of dependence. We presume to provide fully for ourselves; when we are self-sufficient and powerful, we won’t have to rely on God. Aquinas explains avarice’s link to pride by pointing out why it counts as a spiritual vice. Although greed ostensibly focuses on money and possessions, it’s not the physical stuff we most desire. He argues for a more fundamental dimension of disorder. We love money and what money can buy, he says, because “avaricious people take pleasure in the consideration of themselves as the possessor of riches,”33 where “riches” are “possessions of which we are the absolute masters.”34 What we most cherish is the picture of ourselves as godlike.

From greed’s poisoned roots trouble spreads in all directions. We grow callous and restless, our desires for more escalate beyond all reason, and greed undercuts our ability to see the true value of things. Further, as Boethius pointed out centuries ago after losing all his earthly possessions, the more money and stuff we possess, the more money, time, and energy we need to protect and care for it all.35 A bigger house means more furniture, more time and money spent cleaning, and more repairs and upkeep, while bigger property and more cars and toys in the garage mean more of the same. Rather than providing freedom from anxiety and ample provision to satisfy our desires, wealth increases our vulnerability to loss and our preoccupation with our stuff, while also incentivizing further desire for upgrades and updates, additions and accessories. By then we’ve invested so much that we need a better security system to protect it all.

Mark Buchanan tells this story to illustrate the ways we rationalize an accumulative lifestyle:

There is an Indian parable in which a guru had a disciple and was so pleased with the man’s spiritual progress that he left him on his own. The man lived in a little mud hut. He lived simply, begging for his food. Each morning, after his devotions, the disciple washed his loincloth and hung it out to dry. One day, he came back to discover the loincloth torn and eaten by rats. He begged the villagers for another, and they gave it to him. But the rats ate that one, too. So he got himself a cat. That took care of the rats, but now when he begged for his food, he had to beg for milk for the cat as well. “This won’t do,” he thought, “I’ll get a cow.” So he got a cow and found he had to beg for fodder. So he decided to till and plant the ground around his hut. But soon he found he had no time for contemplation, so he hired servants to tend his farm. But overseeing the labors became a chore, so he married to have a wife to help him with the work. After time, the disciple became the wealthiest man in the village.

The guru was traveling by there and stopped in. He was shocked to see that where once stood a simple mud hut there now loomed a palace surrounded by a vast estate, worked by many servants.

“What is the meaning of this?” he asked his disciple.

“You won’t believe this, sir,” the man replied, “But there was no other way I could keep my loincloth.”36

Evagrius of Pontus, speaking for the desert fathers and mothers, concurs: “A monk with many possessions is like a heavily laden boat that easily sinks in a sea storm. Just as a very leaky ship is submerged by each wave, so the person with many possessions is awash with his concerns.”37

Augustine explains the insatiability of desire for temporal goods like this: we will never be able to satisfy our deep, human need for an eternal, perfect good with any amount of temporal, imperfect goods.38 So greedy people’s desires for more keep extending without limit, dooming them to a life of frustration and dissatisfaction, rather than contentment. Evagrius observes, “The sea is never filled up even though it takes in a multitude of rivers (cf. Eccles. 1:7); the desire of the avaricious person cannot get its fill of riches. He doubled his wealth and wants to double it again, and he does not stop doubling it until death puts a stop to his endless zeal.”39 In a more contemporary voice, Jen Hatmaker documents her family’s possession purge, only to question soberly whether they have truly shaken the habit of accumulation: “Will I just replace all this? Will I purge another one thousand items three years from now? Will I slowly refill the empty spaces? Or will my family disconnect from the machine, creating a more courageous legacy than simply consuming? I want to confront the big part [of me] that says ‘more’ with the smaller part that says ‘enough.’”40

Aquinas makes this point in terms of the distinction between natural wealth and artificial wealth. He defines natural wealth as whatever satisfies our natural needs for genuine human goods. Artificial wealth, on the other hand, is the object of artificially created and inflated desires. (It’s hard to imagine a more prophetic label for the effects of the advertising industry.) Possession of these desired things, he notes, just makes us “despise them and seek others,” because once we possess them, we “realize their insufficiency.”41 Jesus’s Sermon on the Mount makes the same point, linking contentment and freedom from anxiety with where we place the source of ultimate value and emphasizing the ephemeral nature of earthly goods, which can always be lost, spoiled, or taken away (Matt. 6:19–34). In the search for lasting satisfaction, nothing we grasp for ourselves can ever make us fully secure from want.

Getting Free from the Grip of Greed

Avarice has unquestionably got many of us in its grip. How can we struggle free? By knowing our own weakness, first of all. Try documenting all saving and spending for a month. What are we using money for when we spend, and why are we holding on to money when we save? The results reveal our hopes and fears. What do they tell us about where we have invested?

Our imaginations may also require a break from exposure to consumerist pictures of happiness via constant accumulation. For at least a month, refrain from going to the mall or looking at catalogs and magazines or browsing online, and limit exposure to advertising as much as possible, even if this means giving up the internet or television. (If you want to try something truly radical, try giving up spending during Advent, and learn to wait upon the Lord for his gifts, in his time, instead. I guarantee it will transform your celebration of Christmas!) We may well be shocked at how jaded we have become to the daily assault of marketing designed to inflame the desire to possess beyond all reasonable measure. In an article called “Why the Devil Takes VISA: A Christian Response to the Triumph of Consumerism,” Rodney Clapp quotes a retail analyst from the 1950s: “Our enormously productive economy . . . demands that we make consumption our way of life, that we convert the buying and use of goods into rituals, that we seek our spiritual satisfaction, our ego satisfaction, in consumption.”42 The term “ritual” is revealing: as acquisitive lifestyles of always-wanting-more form our character and shape our conception of the good, they, like patterns of worship, engrave loves and loyalties on our minds and hearts. Taking a break from constant exposure to this relentless assault on our desire to acquire and possess may feel like a welcome relief, rather than a burden. It may be the most countercultural thing we ever do.

John Cassian demands “total renunciation” as a condition of the monastic life: no personal possessions are allowed at all; in all things monks and nuns depend on the monastery. Ascetic practice, though extreme, seeks to embody the truth that nothing is truly our own. Mary Margaret Funk translates monastic life into family life this way: “A healthy marriage demands the same as a monastic practice of total renunciation. All is shared. The family pools assets. Priorities are established. Each person yields to the common good while personal needs are met as well as they can be. The household is the monastery. Goods are shared according to need. Things mediate love and compassion.”43 When learning to treat possessions as common goods, we can begin our training at home.

Another way forward reclaims perhaps the oldest advice about handling money on record: tithe every week. Total renunciation of possessions is an option for some, but (like food) material goods are something nobody can live entirely without.44 How can we reorder our love of things, calibrating our desire to match need rather than want, without completely forgoing possessions? By regularly giving our money and possessions back to the Giver in return for his gift. Tithing habitually reminds us that our possessions belong first and foremost to God. If we spend on ourselves first and then give away what remains, either to God or to others, we remain entrenched in the mind-set that it is our prerogative to use our possessions however we see fit. The practice of giving them away regularly (e.g., weekly), and on the first day of the week, loosens our attachment, an attachment that builds and tightens before we are even aware of it. Tithing works like a Sabbath from our natural tendencies to save and spend on ourselves first and foremost. Instead, we give and rely on God. Such use of money reminds us that there is nothing we have that we did not receive and that our job is to steward all our gifts (spiritual and material) in God-honoring ways. Like feasting after fasting, the habit of tithing and the generosity for which it frees us reorders our loves and teaches us a new, life-giving rhythm. Like Sabbath-keeping, tithing teaches us to prioritize giving God his due, and it lets that priority shape both the rest of our week and what remains in our wallets.

Such disciplines help us embody the truths that God is our provider and that we were made to worship him alone. When it comes to greed, can we put our money where our mouth is? Elijah asked the widow of Zarephath to give up her last bit of bread (1 Kings 17) and to trust God to provide for the future—including her life and the life of her child. Tithing may be just the sort of practice of releasing our grip that eventually prepares us for an act of trust and generosity like hers. What way of life would make regular, trustful giving feel more natural to us?

We can sum up such practices of resistance to greed in the spiritual discipline of simplicity. In his book Freedom of Simplicity, Richard Foster offers readers a countercultural vision of life, one grounded in seeking first the kingdom and trusting that all the rest will be added. Such a view of God and our possessions engenders the following practical habits:

Buy things for their usefulness rather than their status.

Reject anything that is producing an addiction in you.

Develop a habit of giving things away.

Refuse to be propagandized by the custodians of modern gadgetry.

Learn to enjoy things without owning them.

Develop a deeper appreciation for the creation.

Look with a healthy skepticism at all “buy now, pay later” schemes.

Obey Jesus’ instructions about plain, honest speech.

Reject anything that breeds the oppression of others.

Shun anything that distracts you from seeking first the kingdom of God.45

Of course, the point of practicing any form of liberation from the power of avarice is not rigid conformity to a code of conduct. Rather, such practices open us to the work of the Spirit, who re-forms our hearts and loosens our grip enough so that we can give, not because we have to, but because we want to. Then our giving flows from a deep well of trust, gratitude, joy, and love.

Richard Rohr says, “All great spirituality is about letting go.” Although many disciplines feel burdensome and difficult at the outset—Adele Ahlberg Calhoun even calls them “mini-death[s] of relinquishment”46—we realize over time that we are traveling lighter and breathing more easily, relieved from the anxiety of always having to manage our possessions. We can identify virtues like generosity and spiritual disciplines like simplicity not by percentages given but by their yield in freedom, lightness, and joy.

In God We Trust

Practices of trustful simplicity and open-handed generosity, arising from the wellspring of a grateful heart, are greed’s greatest antidotes. They prepare us for holy extravagance in our giving to God, as well as the final detachment from all worldly things at death. Recall the Gospel story of the woman who poured a bottle of expensive perfume on Jesus’s feet. Judas reacted by protesting that it could have been sold and the profits given to the poor (John 12:5). To our ears, doesn’t he sound stewardly? Prudential? Charitable? Fiscally responsible? Even if Judas was hoping to skim a little off the top, his basic reaction—“What a waste!”—still resonates. What would we rightly see as good stewardship rather than waste if only we could see the world without greed’s insistence on measuring the worth of each thing, act, and person by its material value or profitability? How do we acquire that vision?

Centuries ago, Aristotle ruled out money as the definition of what made human life happy. His reason? Money is only a means to happiness—an instrumental good valuable only for the sake of further goods we can acquire with it. The greedy mistakenly make money—or perhaps, more accurately, their possession of money and stuff—an end in itself. Why are they tempted to count this as their ultimate end? The wealth in their hands represents security and freedom from fear and want—deep human needs indeed. Thus, the tendency to substitute money’s promise of self-sufficiency for God’s promise to be our all in all easily takes hold of human hearts. Could we imagine a life free from worry over what we will eat or drink or wear (Matt. 6:25–34), a life in which we do not store up for ourselves treasures on earth (6:19)?

Robert Mulholland describes our grasping, greedy selves in spiritual formation language: “The false self is a possessive self,” he writes. “Part of the possessive nature of our false self is interwoven with our fear and protectiveness. Possessions are seen as a means of protection against threats that endanger our false self. Not only are possessions a hedge against the loss of material security, they can also be a valuable asset in manipulating the world in ways that protect our false self from threats to our status quo.”47

It is no coincidence that Scripture recurrently mentions fear in connection with avoiding avarice: “Do not be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions, and give alms. Make purses for yourselves that do not wear out, an unfailing treasure in heaven, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also” (Luke 12:32–34). The writer of Hebrews likewise counsels: “Keep your lives free from the love of money, and be content with what you have; for [Jesus] has said, ‘I will never leave you or forsake you.’ So we can say with confidence, ‘The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid. What can anyone do to me?’” (Heb. 13:5–6). We can try to assuage our fears by accumulating stuff that won’t last and isn’t secure, or we can invest our trust in God, who alone can promise and deliver real security. The refrain from the Taizé community reflects this biblical connection between lack of fear, security in God’s provision, and gratitude rather than grasping: “In the Lord I’ll be ever thankful / In the Lord I will rejoice / Look to God / Do not be afraid / Lift up your voices / The Lord is near / Lift up your voices / The Lord is near.”48

Our greed shows us trying to overcome fear of want by becoming all-powerful, shunning dependence, and providing for ourselves. Before the face of God, however, our attempts at security and sufficiency will always be exposed as a sham. As Augustine writes, “Avarice wishes to have large possessions; [but] you [God] possess everything.” Our avaricious grasping for more leaves us possessing only a “dim resemblance” of God’s omnipotence.49 When greed pulls at our hearts, we need to ask ourselves, “Why don’t I trust God to give me everything I need?”

Avarice sells us a spiritually dangerous lie. When we are in its grip we believe that the things we own are ours and that we have control over them and, therefore, control over our lives. As C. S. Lewis’s fictional devil Screwtape says,

The sense of ownership [in human beings] is always to be encouraged. The humans are always putting up claims to ownership that sound equally funny in Heaven and in Hell and we must keep them doing so. . . . [The human acts as if he were] a royal child whom his father has placed, for love’s sake, in titular command of some great province, under the real rule of wise counselors, [who comes] to fancy that he really owns the cities, the forests, and the corn, in the way he owns the [building blocks] on the nursery floor.

We [the demons] produce this sense of ownership not only by pride but by confusion. We teach them not to notice the different senses of the possessive pronoun—the finely graded differences that run from “my boots” through “my dog,” “my servant,” “my wife,” “my father,” “my master” and “my country,” to “my God.” They can be taught to reduce all these senses to that of “my boots,” the “my” of ownership. . . .

And all the time the joke is that the word “Mine” in its fully possessive sense cannot be uttered by a human being about anything. In the long run either Our Father [i.e., Satan] or the Enemy [i.e., God] will say “Mine” of each thing that exists, and specially of each [person]. They will find out in the end, never fear, to whom their time, their souls, and their bodies really belong—certainly not to them, whatever happens. At present the Enemy says “Mine” of everything on the pedantic, legalistic ground that He made it: Our Father hopes in the end to say “Mine” of all things on the more realistic and dynamic ground of conquest.50

The freedom to give generously and to live free from anxiety, by contrast, arises from the conviction that not only our things but our very selves belong to God. We must learn, says Stanley Hauerwas, that being “creatures of such a God . . . means we are a people who believe that we do not live in a world dominated by scarcity. Our Lord is a Lord of abundance.”51 Our truest picture of God is that of a lavish Giver. Correspondingly, we rightly see ourselves as grateful receivers of his gifts. When we embrace all things as “the gifts of God for the people of God,” we relearn and rediscover a creation to be celebrated gratefully and shared in common, rather than consumed by greed.

FURTHER REFLECTION

Is greed a problem mainly because of what it does to the greedy person (vice) or because of its harm to others (injustice)? What is so bad about greed’s internal damage?

What is your picture of a secure and comfortable life in which your needs and desires are met? What possessions and purchasing behavior fit that picture? What sorts of desires and fears drive your saving and spending?

What is the best picture of generosity and the freedom of detachment that you have encountered? How could you cultivate gratitude and generosity in your own life as a regular practice?

FURTHER READING

William T. Cavanaugh, Being Consumed: Economics and Christian Desire (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2008).

Richard Foster, The Freedom of Simplicity: Finding Harmony in a Complex World, rev. ed. (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 2005).

———, “Simplicity,” chap. 6 in Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth, anniversary ed. (San Francisco: HarperOne, 2018).

cUD

7 
Wrath

Holy Emotion or Hellish Passion?

[Wrath] is the love of justice perverted into the desire for revenge and for the injury of someone else; justice is the proclaimed motive for every manifestation of Wrath.

—Henry Fairlie, The Seven Deadly Sins Today

The power of anger is actually the power of resistance in the soul.

—Josef Pieper, The Four Cardinal Virtues

A Damascus Road Experience

One April, my family took a long-awaited spring break trip. Escape from Michigan’s icy, gray climate for a week of warm sunshine “down south” feels a bit like emerging into the daylight after being trapped in the suffocating darkness of a deep cave. So we hit the road early on Friday morning, alive with anticipation.

Just a few hours into our journey, the highway traffic jammed up. We inched through Indiana and crawled through Kentucky, watching in dismay as our precious vacation was eaten away, hour after hour. Apparently three of the four major cities on our travel route were NCAA March Madness tournament host sites. Combined with spring break traffic, this meant gridlock with no end in sight.

After almost ten exasperating hours in the car, desperate for any chance at forward movement, we maneuvered off the highway and took our chances on the twisting back roads of Tennessee. Forty-five miles per hour felt like flying as we rolled up and down the green hills, whizzing by a few cows and a tiny white-steepled Baptist church or two. Until . . . the car ahead of us slowed to a halt, behind a dozen others. “What on earth is it now?” the kids groaned.

My husband craned his neck out the window. “Looks like there’s some guy walking in the middle of the road,” he reported.

“What?!” I huffed. “What does that crazy fool think he’s doing? Can’t he see he’s holding up at least twenty cars?” As we inched closer, my blood was boiling. “Why can’t he get out of our way? Who does he think he is, anyway?”

“Wait a minute . . .” As we inched closer, my husband squinted at the figure again. Then he looked sheepishly at me. With a lowered voice he said, “Um, it looks like a guy carrying a cross. I think he’s supposed to be dressed up as Jesus.” We gaped at each other, suddenly remembering with chagrin: it was Good Friday. Everyone in the car watched in silence as the pastor, wearing a white robe and a crown of thorns, solemnly struggled down the middle of the road carrying a large wooden cross on his back, with a straggling bunch of followers from his congregation trailing behind.

When he was past, a child’s voice piped up from the back seat: “Wow, Mom, you just called Jesus a crazy fool and told him to get out of our way.”

Who was this Jesus to stand in the way of my expectations? Who was he to slow me down, disrupt my plans, and block my way? (And who was he to humiliate me in front of my children as they caught me red-handed yelling at him for it?)1

For many of us, anger is a problem, one that often reveals a spiritual problem. As the opening story illustrates, we express this emotion when something interferes with what we expect or feel we deserve. The emotion of anger, like fear and shame, haunts our hearts at the depths, where we have buried our hopes and hurts. Anger harnesses powerful energy—hence its volatility and dangerous potential. To confront our anger, we must enter territory fraught with difficulty, for we guard both ourselves and whatever our anger protects with great defensiveness.2

When we examine anger more closely, puzzles arise. Is anger always a spiritually toxic emotion, or can it sometimes be a fitting response to evil? Isn’t it morally good to feel righteous indignation, or are we just self-deceived and self-righteous rationalizers? More importantly, how should Christians—who seek to cultivate Christlike virtue—confront injury and offense, hurtful and hostile disagreement, and persistent injustice in the world? Should we make anger a habit?

A Divided Tradition?

The Christian tradition itself disagrees about whether anger is good or bad. We can hear both sides in the quotes that open this chapter. Maybe your experience leaves you conflicted too. When we picture anger, the emotion can be invigorating and alive with passion, or it can show itself equally ugly and violent. Martin Luther King Jr. inspires us by denouncing injustice in compelling and majestic rhetoric from the pulpit. If he had not felt deeply affronted by racial injustice as an intolerable injury to human dignity, his words would have lacked the right force. As Garret Keizer once said of Jesus, “I am unable to commit to any messiah who doesn’t knock over tables.”3 Anger can embolden the complacent to courageous action and spur us to sacrificial advocacy. But anger can destroy, too, as it does in the frenzied fury of an abusive parent lashing out at a child or the animosity of ordinary citizens turning on each other with road rage, racial epithets, or snarky denunciations that ripple across the Twittersphere. On a larger scale, the political climate seethes with contempt and incivility, protesters shout their outrage, entitled customers stew impatiently over incompetent service, and social media posts pontificate in condescending rhetoric.

Sorting good from bad anger in human cases is often perplexing. It becomes even more complicated when we think about God’s anger. The Bible tells us outright that God burns with anger, and the Minor Prophets make a convincing case for it. Every Catholic funeral mass includes a Dies irae—a call to fear the day of the Lord’s wrath. On the Protestant side, Jonathan Edwards’s famous sermon calls us “sinners in the hands of an angry God.”4 Nonetheless, the apostle Paul’s “sin lists” invariably include warnings against fits of anger, bitterness, and rage, along with the slander and malice they produce (e.g., Gal. 5:20; Col. 3:8). And most of what Scripture has to say about anger is negative—see Proverbs, James, and Jesus’s Sermon on the Mount, for starters.

Christian thinkers also disagree about anger. The tradition divides into two main camps. One side—including Aquinas—argues that anger is a natural expression of human emotion, like sadness or fear. As pain signals injury to the body, so anger signals injury to the soul. On this view, anger does not count as inherently bad, although it can go wrong by attacking the wrong target or burning out of control. However, identifying a disordered strain of anger presumes that we already have a picture of well-ordered anger that operates as a standard for judging deviant cases. Aquinas contrasts righteous, rightly ordered anger with two vices: complacent or apathetic deficiency on one side and wrathful excess on the other. So this line of thinking carefully distinguishes anger, the passion, one of many normal human emotional responses, from wrath, the vice, which names anger’s sinful, excessive, misdirected form.5

Aquinas claims that anger’s rightful target is injustice—that is, anger registers that someone has been wronged and responds with a desire that the wrong be redressed. Anger rightly expresses the thought, “This is not the way it’s supposed to be! Something ought to be done to set things straight!” In this way, as Pieper says, “The power of anger is actually the power of resistance in the soul.”6 Notice that anger requires the language of “ought” and “owe.” Like a flare, anger goes off when we detect not mere hurt, but offense. We can identify anger as a holy passion, then, when it expresses a desire for the “righting of wrongs,” to use Nicholas Wolterstorff’s apt phrase.7 Aquinas even argues that anger can more wholeheartedly express our will to do justice, while a completely dispassionate response may signal a lackluster commitment.8 Emotions rightly echo and enliven choices that reflect our moral values. Good anger, felt deeply, fuels the will’s mandate to do justice—so long as (quoting Gregory the Great) we never let it “withdraw from following reason like a handmaid ready to render service.”9

Christ gives us a model of rightly expressed and targeted anger. Aquinas argues that the Gospels describe Jesus as a human being with the full complement of sinless emotions—from sorrow to anger to delight. Jesus’s emotions lead him to righteous action and advocacy for justice. As Keizer puts it, “Smite him on the cheek and he turns you the other; slap the dignity of the house of prayer, however, and he turns over a table.”10 Notably, none of his anger is self-serving, and the virtue of gentleness nonetheless defines his overall character.

Given the grave injustice in the world, Aquinas’s picture of good anger seems exactly right. But other voices in the Christian tradition fall into a second camp, which counsels caution. Dallas Willard tells us, “There is nothing that can be done with anger that cannot be done better without it,” and King checks our anger with this thought: “[We] must evolve for all human conflict a method that rejects revenge, aggression, and retaliation. The foundation of such a method is love.”11 Can this second strain of Christian voices, which offers an unapologetically strong stance against anger, also have something to teach us?

Evagrius of Pontus warns that anger always disturbs “pure prayer”—the communion with God that is the goal of desert life and discipline.

Everything you do to avenge yourself against a brother who has wronged you will become a stumbling block at the time of prayer. . . .

When you are praying as you should, such things will come over you that you may think it utterly just to resort to anger, but there is absolutely no such thing as just anger against your neighbor. If you search you will find (cf. Matt. 7:7) that it is possible even without anger for the matter to be settled properly. Therefore, make use of every means to avoid an outburst of anger.12

Prayer, by contrast, “is the offshoot of gentleness and freedom from anger.” Seeking to imitate Christ in all things, we must aim above all to be “gentle and humble of heart” (Matt. 11:29). The desert tradition therefore makes mastering anger a key step in spiritual formation.

Cassian, following suit, counsels his monastic community that “in our fourth spiritual combat the deadly poison of anger has to be completely rooted out from the utmost corners of our soul.”13 Heeding the apostle James, he argues that “[our] anger does not produce God’s righteousness” (1:20) and likely does not produce anything righteous at all. Anger can be properly directed only at our own sin, and perhaps the evil demons that incite us to it, never at a human being. Love of neighbor precludes anger targeted directly at another person. This is why Jesus teaches that “anyone who is angry with a brother or sister will be subject to judgment” (Matt. 5:22 NIV) and why Paul instructs the Ephesians to “get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger” (4:31 NIV), noting that the apostle brooks no exceptions to this rule, even righteous causes.14

Why such dire warnings? Cassian makes the case that all anger causes blindness, obscuring our ability to see Christ: “The emotion of wrath blinds the eyes of the soul and prevents us from seeing the Sun of Righteousness [i.e., Christ].” In fact, “For any reason whatsoever the movement of wrath may boil over and blind the eyes of the heart. It is irrelevant whether a layer of gold or one of lead or of some other metal is placed over the eyes; the preciousness of the metal [i.e., the righteousness of the motive] does not change the fact of blindness.”15 Such effects make anger a “fundamental issue in the spiritual life.”16 Whatever our ostensibly good intentions or righteous causes, how can we work for justice if we cannot see Christ—in the situation or in others?

These are strong claims! I have to confess that the first time I read these thinkers I thought they must be exaggerating for rhetorical effect. The spiritual question behind their apparently radical counsel, however, is why we are angry. Evagrius tells the monk not to “give an evil sword to the [demons] . . . by getting inflamed by anger. . . . Over what,” he asks, “‘do you fall to fighting so quickly’ (Prov. 25:8), if indeed you have scorned food, riches, and esteem? And why do you feed this dog, if you claim to own nothing? If it barks and attacks people, obviously it has possessions inside and wants to guard them.”17 Anger rightly guards and defends. But its focus should be guarding the right things against their being wronged. The desert fathers and mothers observe that anger so disturbs reason that it twists any real concern about sin or injustice into service of the self. Look at what angers you. Wrath arises when we defend the false self (at all costs). The false self is our cherished picture of ourselves, propped up by pride. The term, from spiritual formation literature, refers to what the apostle Paul calls “the old self” or sinful nature. We jealously guard this vision of our success and self-importance, which rests on any number of goods that may sound eerily familiar to readers of this book: our reputation, wealth, independence, success, likability, superiority, or control. Evagrius asks each of us, “What is your anger guarding?” What do these possessions, and the fierceness with which we guard them, say about who we think we are and what we believe we deserve?

Desert wisdom took the passions (like anger) as cues or warning signs for disciples to read and heed on the road to humility, as we follow in Christ’s footsteps. According to Cassian’s pastoral report from the desert, most of our anger looks like road rage—yelling at Jesus to get out of our way, rather than walking with him to the cross. Recall from the previous chapter Keller’s diagnostic exercise: note when you feel the most intense negative emotions (e.g., terror, rage, frustration, despair). More often than not, these occasions and emotions indicate places where we guard our deepest attachments to worldly desires and the most significant sources of our identity, holding them safe against surrender to God.18 Because wrath reveals our idolatrous attachments and our prideful sense of self, even if we agree with Aquinas that theoretically anger can be good, Cassian’s spiritual counsel to get rid of all anger is, for most of us most of the time, sobering and sound practical advice.

Target Practice

Let’s return to Aquinas’s more moderate line on anger for a moment. If we grant that it could be a healthy emotion as well as a hellish habit, something we could feel and express either well or badly, then what would mark the difference between good anger and the vice of wrath?

Aquinas analyzes anger as an emotional force of resistance and a complex emotion. Its open antagonism toward whatever injures or threatens is driven by a passionate devotion to the good. Appropriate anger expresses the desire to enact “what is required for justice to be done.”19 When things go well, correcting injustice is our worthy goal. Any punishment of an offense (an evil) may be sought only for the sake of this good. (By contrast, willing evil as such to another person counts as hatred, the opposite of love.) Note that wrath is a peculiarly human sin, since its disorder requires that we have a sense of justice to be twisted. In an ironic testimony to the power of this good, the wrongly angered and wrathful person also perceives his or her end as just or works hard to rationalize it as such. In both cases, the desire for justice—whether real or apparent—strongly motivates us; our anger marches under its banner. Recall that the capital vices begin with great goods, which, when pursued wrongly or excessively, tend to produce much other sin. Thus, the excellence and desirability of its self-proclaimed good end make wrath a capital vice, as does its “impetuosity,” since wrath easily incites us to many other sinful actions by its force.

We also experience the passion of anger physically. Its effect on our bodies makes us alert and ready for action. Anger covers the “fight” portion of our fight-or-flight response to danger, evil, and difficulty. As such, it can be our ally in action, by helping us deal with both inner and outer difficulties that could discourage us from pursuing what’s right. Someone who would otherwise be too shy may need the push of anger to stand up and speak out when he needs to defend the downtrodden. Someone who would otherwise feel too weak may fight beyond the limit of her power if anger fires her spirit. A complacent congregation may need anger to lift it out of indifference and mobilize it into just advocacy.

But if anger makes us ready to fight, then we must “fight the good fight” in order to avoid anger’s turn toward vice. This means fighting for a good cause and fighting well. Our anger must serve the cause, not the other way around. Venting the emotion is not itself the point, even if we succumb to the common mistake of trying to dissipate anger by letting off some steam. With all sins against temperance—including wrath, lust, and gluttony—Aquinas observes (and contemporary psychological studies confirm)20 that, like two-year-olds, the passions get more unruly and harder to control the more we indulge them.21 But merely suppressing anger isn’t the point. The goal of restraining or “tempering” anger is to keep reason’s judgment clear.

“Feelings are, with a few exceptions, good servants,” says Willard. “But they are disastrous masters.”22 We measure the fittingness of anger’s expression by whether it effectively furthers the goal of justice or whether it lays waste to whatever lies in its path. The Greek virtue sophrosunē, which is hard to translate but means something close to “self-mastery” or “self-possession,” describes a person whose emotions serve and support her overall picture of the good. In the wrathful or unselfcontrolled person, by contrast, anger overwhelms, narrowing her view of the good and turning the world she sees red. It seizes control as a self-proclaimed commander-in-chief.

When anger is good, it expresses our passion for justice and love for others. Witness the ways we encounter especially fierce anger in families or intimate relationships, where we find strong ties of attachment. Novelist Alan Paton once described a mother as “like a tigress for [her] child.”23 The deeper the love and the greater the good at stake, the more intense our capacity for anger. You don’t get angry unless you are deeply invested, unless you care. Apathy stands apart as a tepid alternative to both love and anger. At its best, and rightly expressed, anger passionately protects and defends a loved good.

Anger turns wrathful when it fights for its own selfish cause, not for justice, and when it fights dirty. That is, anger turns into the vice of wrath because of problems with its target—whatever it is that makes us angry—or with the way we try to hit that target—how we express our anger. Let’s look at each of these problems in turn.

First, good anger must fight for a good cause—its rightful target. Ask, “What are you angry about?” The answer will be either some selfish end—if wrath is what motivates your anger—or the restoration of justice and shalom—if righteous anger is your incentive. “[Wrath’s] purpose and desire is to eliminate any obstacle to our self-seeking, to retaliate against any threat to our security, to avenge any insult or injury to our person.”24 Wrath’s fighting power tends to protect my ego and entitlements, to the exclusion of the claims of others. “The underlying message of highly angry people,” according to the American Psychological Association website, is that “‘things oughta go my way!’ Angry people tend to feel that . . . any blocking or changing of their plans is an unbearable indignity and that they should not have to suffer this way. Maybe other people do, but NOT them!”25 When anger becomes wrath, the goods it defends are my agenda (thwarted by your foolishness, thoughtlessness, or alternative plans), my control (undermined by your interference, or God’s), my dignity (cut by your offensive comment, neglect, or contemptuous tone), my cherished reputation (besmirched by your derisive slander or truthful exposé), or my high expectations (disappointed by your mistakes, my own failures, or inconvenient realities). If you have high standards and ideals, work as a leader with great responsibility, or devote great effort to planning, wrathful anger may be a persistent temptation.

We commonly respond more to the apparent insolence of an offender’s action against us than to the gravity or damage of the actual offense. Disrespect rankles. Wrathful people’s overprotectiveness about what they are owed signals wrath’s roots in pride. Anger might well serve to protect healthy boundaries, but we excessively inflate these demands. Good anger depends on a rightful sense of what is “due,” either to us or to another, and a sense of what justice requires, but we struggle to differentiate justice from self-justification. (Not to mention that expecting perfect justice in a broken world exacerbates anger further.) As Henry Fairlie notes, we must discern justice’s genuine claims from its counterfeits, lest our “love of justice [be] perverted into the desire for revenge and for the injury of someone,” since “justice is the proclaimed motive for every manifestation of Wrath.”26 Wrath brings out the rationalizer in all of us. In the tradition, “swelling of the mind” names the offspring vice of wrath that mentally magnifies the offense, our woundedness, and our worthiness compared to that of the offender. In retaliation for such “offenses,” wrath ostensibly returns measure for measure. When anger lacks justice’s good judgment and genuine impartiality, good reasoning becomes its puppet.

When anger has the wrong object, what we are angry about is inappropriate. Perhaps no real injury occurred—only a misunderstanding or an imagined offense. Or our anger aims at the wrong person, or the person who happens to be closest, or most available, or most readily wounded—the easiest target within range. Have you ever found yourself lashing out at an intermediate because you could not find or fight the true offender? Perhaps we even lash out at others around us because we feel impotent shaking our fists at God.

The second way wrathful anger can go wrong is in how we express it. Anger should not only aim at a truly just cause but should also seek that end with necessary, effective, and proportionate means. Wrath often falls afoul of this second requirement too. Managing to express anger well tends to be a tall order, as Keizer confesses: “My anger has often seemed out of proportion—that is, too great or too little, more often too great—for the occasion that gave rise to it. My anger has more often distressed those I love than it has afflicted those at whom I was angry. [And] my anger has not carried me far enough toward changing what legitimately enrages me.”27 Even if we admit that anger can be a natural and healthy God-given emotion, we have to come to grips with the fact that more often than not, it burns out of control. We feel enraged, furious, in the grip of something stronger than we are—even something demonic. Some medieval writings used the Latin ira (anger) to name righteous anger, the kind that rightly expresses a just judgment, while they used furor (fury) to identify malformed anger, whether it was irrationally expressed or wildly disproportionate.28 Even a legitimate grievance (the right target) can be dealt with in destructive and disastrous ways. A quick scan of a biblical concordance yields a dozen passages, most of them from Proverbs, giving counsel about excessive anger. Interestingly, none of them mentions a word about the object of our anger. The passages on anger’s rightful expression can be briefly summarized in the advice, “Cool down, you hotheads.”

Aquinas breaks down wrath’s disordered expression into three main categories. We can get angry too easily (e.g., when we are quick-tempered); we can get angrier than we should (e.g., when our anger is too vehement or otherwise disproportionate to the offense); and we can stay angry too long (i.e., when anger smolders into resentment and grudge holding).

The first type—getting angry too easily—often takes the form of irritability. When wrathful anger poisons our mood, every little thing sets us off. We feel quarrelsome and contrary. We see others as uncooperative, inconvenient hindrances and treat them with eye-rolling impatience. We respond to the slightest provocation with bickering, rudeness, complaint, annoyance, cutting remarks, and even profanity. If you are a busy person living without rest or margins, or if you have a foul mouth or a tendency to complain, watch out for this form of wrath in your life.

A prototypical case of the second type—getting angrier than we should—is the familiar blow-up scene, complete with shouting and door slamming. Our emotions explode and even turn violent over some insignificant incident, which in anger’s eye counts as the last straw in a long history of hurt. Or the excessiveness of our emotion betrays a perceived assault on a deeply invested ego. Our anger is calibrated to a swollen sense of what we are owed or exacerbated by too small a view of things. Drivers cut us off in traffic, referees make bad calls, shoppers cut ahead of us in line. How big of a deal will we make of their rudeness, mistakes, and selfishness? Why doesn’t it seem more reasonable to take a deep breath and extend them grace?

Holding on to our anger too long is a third way our expression of anger becomes vicious. Resentment often shows itself as sullenness or spite, the refusal to forgive, and dreaming about vengeance. More mundanely, we can employ passive-aggressive tactics like spoiling another’s pleasure by being uncooperative or disdainful, or letting our anger out in relentless pinpricks rather than mighty blows and great shouts. We spend our time plotting revenge and taking consolation in fantasies where we show them what they really deserve. But as musician Don Henley once put it, “If you keep carrying that anger, it’ll eat you up inside.”29 Moreover, holding grudges and nurturing resentment, even for genuine past offenses, makes us more prone to the first two vicious modes of wrathful expression. When resentment smolders beneath the surface, we go through the day like a snake poised to strike at the first sign of movement (we become quick-tempered), and our anger at the present moment swells to the size of the whole history of harm done (our anger is disproportionate to the offense). All anger is in danger of rationalization, but resentment perhaps more than anything can distort the truthfulness of our memory. As the saying goes, “The older I get, the more vividly I remember things that never happened.”

Worst of all, wrath can go wrong in several of these ways all at once, as when we get excessively angry and stay angry much too long at someone who does not deserve it. Expressions of wrath move us beyond being upset about an injustice to a desire to hurt someone, make them pay, and inflict punishment on them, not as a good but as an evil. Often this goes hand in hand with “totalizing” the offender—that is, reducing the offender’s whole person to his act of offending while omitting the larger context of his full humanity and life story. In such cases, the solution is to “tell more of the truth [about the offender], not less.”30 Cassian warns about anger-induced blindness for good reason.

Our cultural formation trains us in wrath and is known by its fruit. In the Christian tradition of the capital vices, wrath’s “offspring” vices catalog the manifestations of wrath from the inside out. Wrath leads us to demean our offender by magnifying our own importance and the gravity of the offense as we replay the offense over and over in our minds (selectively editing as we go). Today, we might call “swelling of the mind” the first mental step in rationalizing an excessive response, as we enter an imaginary courtroom to justify and avenge ourselves, even if the whole scene is only savored in our thoughts. Our speech and words also express wrathful patterns: these sinful habits include angry outbursts, insulting others, even blaspheming God. “What you say flows from what is in your heart” (Luke 6:45 NLT). If we regularly use insulting words for others, post social media rants, or mutter a steady stream of derogatory commentary while driving, we need to look to the inner source of those habits. Aquinas catalogs several forms of what he calls “injuries with words,” including “reviling, back-biting, gossiping, derision, and cursing.”31 Here we also find ourselves well-practiced in wrath: America’s new cultural trademark is contemptuous communication, often barely disguised as “humorous banter” or “political discourse.” Contempt comes in the form of middle school put-downs, memes and roasts, trash-talking, scoring social points by trading insults on Twitter, or monologuing on talk shows. How many hours of television or talk radio do we have to listen to before it seems like normal conversation to habitually demonize those who disagree with us? Is it really okay to trash people publicly on social media as a recreational pastime? We all know that it’s never a wise idea to read the comments section of anything posted online.

We also learn heightened expectations of the goods we are “due” from nearly incessant advertising. Our idealistic or overinflated presumptions are only further stoked by privileged economic status, a world that values efficiency and speed, the impersonality of our communication, and preferences for personal convenience that trump civility and the common good. No wonder we default to the deformities of wrath. We thrive on power plays and ego-boosting put downs, and humiliation is just another form of humor. Thus we not only drive angrily, but we also live angrily, a moment away from frustration. My Damascus road experience makes a perfect metaphor of modern life. We are all sitting behind the steering wheel, screaming, “Jesus, and everyone else, get the h— out of my way!”

Anger, the “Sword-Bearer of Desire”32

In my collection of cultural artifacts based on the seven deadly sins, I have a book containing “a lavish collection of wicked home interiors” depicting each of the seven vices. One photo displays a large crystal chandelier smashed on the floor, with a crystal-handled knife plunged into the middle of the heap of shattered, sparkling rubble. The authors call it an “unsettling still life.”33 Although wrath—along with lust and gluttony—counts among the “warm” sins, and the wrathful are often called “hot-blooded,” the effects of wrath are ultimately chilling. In other words, wrath may start with a head of steam and gain momentum with a string of epithets, but once we have dehumanized our opponent enough, this vice can lead us to further deeds that injure and even kill.

In The Mission, a film depicting the eighteenth-century European colonization of South America, we find a further set of portraits, this time contrasting wrath at its most murderous with righteous anger at its most loving.34 In the first scene, Rodrigo (Robert De Niro) is a slave trader returning from a recent foray into the jungle. Looking for the woman he loves, he discovers her in bed with his brother, Felipe. He storms out of the room in furious silence. His brother hastily dresses and rushes after him, begging for understanding. Words clash, and soon swords. The fight ends when Rodrigo stabs Felipe and then stands over him and watches him die. Rodrigo’s wrath expresses itself in vengeful and deadly harm to his own brother.

Overcome by remorse, Rodrigo confesses his crime to Father Gabriel (Jeremy Irons). Rodrigo eventually becomes a priest and follows Father Gabriel to a remote native village above the Iguazu waterfall, where the Guarani Indians have become Christians and the Jesuits have established a mission. A short time later, shifting political boundaries extend the slave trade above the falls, threatening the village with extinction. Rodrigo has renounced the sword and become a Catholic priest—forbidden by his own vows to take up arms and use violence against another, because he stands in persona Christi. How will he and Father Gabriel confront those who come with military might to destroy the village and enslave its people?

In a second scene, Rodrigo enters Father Gabriel’s room and declares his intention to renounce his priestly vows, take up the sword again, and fight in the villagers’ defense. Father Gabriel—usually a gentle, humble, and soft-spoken man—turns on him in anger. “You should never have become a priest!” he tells Rodrigo. The world will always try to solve its problems with violence, death, and the power of the sword, he argues passionately. If you want to help the villagers, “then help them as a priest!”

To take up the sword would undercut not only Rodrigo’s vows but also the priests’ witness with the Guarani. In a last appeal, Father Gabriel admonishes Rodrigo, “You have given your life to God, and God is love!” As we see in a later scene, he has not rejected Rodrigo, despite being grieved to the core at his actions. His vehement words are inspired by equally vehement love and concern for Rodrigo’s spiritual well-being and for right worship of God. He intends his words to correct and protect Rodrigo, not to wound or harm. In fact, he pleads not for his own way but for what he believes God is due. Even though he is Rodrigo’s superior in the Jesuit order, his words and manner clearly show that Rodrigo’s disobedience to God troubles him, not Rodrigo’s disobedience to himself. While his anger reveals a deep grief and frustration at Rodrigo’s choice, he does not express antipathy toward the man himself. He longs for his good as his brother in Christ.35

In the end, both Rodrigo and Gabriel die, Rodrigo while fighting valiantly but futilely to defend the villagers, and Gabriel while carrying the eucharistic host out of the village church, offering it to the attacking enemy. Rodrigo lived by the sword and he died by it. Even though he wielded it in the end not for his own selfish interests but for justice and the love of others, he fought from a desire to make things right in his own eyes and by his own might. Rodrigo’s choices revealed his ultimate loyalties. He preferred renouncing his vows to renouncing his sword.

What mission are you on? And what means will you use to pursue it? Dallas Willard once described wrath as our response to an “insult to our kingdom.”36 Sometimes we confuse defending our own kingdom with seeking first God’s kingdom. When we insist on our own way, and our own timing, have we really laid down the weapons of the false, prideful self? Christ teaches us to pray, “Your kingdom come” and “Your will be done” (Matt. 6:10). If, as some have argued, praying for God’s kingdom to come is the quintessential act of hope, then our impatience reveals a failure to trust God to make all things new, albeit in his sometimes unsearchable, upside-down ways.

What is the difference between Rodrigo’s anger at his brother and Gabriel’s anger at Rodrigo? In the first scene, Rodrigo’s wrath is motivated by injury to himself—a sexual betrayal. Moreover, his ill will toward his brother culminates in murder—violence that brings grief and harm to himself, his brother, and the woman they both desired. Gabriel’s anger, on the other hand, arises from a concern for Rodrigo’s spiritual good, the spiritual good of the villagers, and the obedience God is due. His anger does not have much if anything to do with what he claims for himself. He expresses his anger in a passionate admonition to be faithful to God’s way, rather than in harmful blows or even words designed to wound. Rodrigo’s wrath shows us anger’s disordered, disproportionate, and ultimately deadly form. Gabriel shows us anger in the service of justice and love, anger that seeks to win back the offender, rather than inflicting harm on him for harm’s sake or to assuage an offended ego. His anger—in both its object and its manner of expression—respects what was due to God and neighbor.

Even when we think we have a just cause in view, though, destructive expressions of anger serve as warning symptoms, alerting us to the temptations of wrath. We—like Rodrigo and unlike Father Gabriel—are impatient; we tend not to trust God to ultimately make things right, if not in this world, then in the next. Even when we believe there is a just cause at stake, and rightly so, how we get angry and how we express our anger can also show us the ways our own agendas and timetables intrude. Worries about avoiding wrath should certainly not temper our passion for justice now; rather, they should caution us to focus the passion and energy of our anger on God’s agenda, in submission to his will and his way.

Keeping our anger under control allows us to keep a clear view of the goal—namely, the need of the people for whom we seek justice, and the humanity of those who currently thwart it. Martin Luther King Jr., for example, called out racial injustice with passion, but without being dominated by anger or hating his racial oppressors. His love of justice stayed deeply rooted in his desire that all people learn to love each other and see others as God sees them. In his “Letter from a Birmingham Jail,” he writes, “If I have said anything in this letter that . . . is indicative of unreasonable impatience, I beg you to forgive me. If I have said anything in this letter that . . . is indicative of my . . . patience . . . with anything less than brotherhood, I beg God to forgive me. . . . I also hope that circumstances will soon make it possible for me to meet each of you, not as . . . a civil rights leader, but as a fellow clergyman and a Christian brother.”37

The Mission and King’s movement also raise questions about what a correct Christian response to injustice should be. The question “Should Christians be angry?” is ambiguous. It does not distinguish between a single episode of anger and a character trait or habit of getting angry. In giving the stronger views of the desert fathers and mothers their due, therefore, we do not need to claim that all anger is unnecessary or must be laid down. Instead, we can read their counsel as part of a conversation about vice and lifelong formation. If we address anger as a habit, rather than an isolated incident, and we focus on the lifelong project of cultivating a Christlike temperament, our questions shift. If being like Jesus is our calling, every moment of every day, what sort of character does this call us to? He, too, confronted a world in which injustice wreaked real and persistent damage. What virtues help us respond rightly in such a world, and what role should anger play in that response?

The movie Black Panther implicitly asks and answers the same question, though not from a Christian point of view.38 Confronted by systemic injustice toward people we care (and should care) for, what is the most virtuous response? Intervention seems called for, in contrast to withdrawal. But what sort of action should it be? Is violent aggression and arming the oppressed to level the playing field a realistic strategy, a rightly ordered response, or a recipe for more and more violence? Erik Killmonger (Michael B. Jordan) and King T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman) fundamentally disagree about means, even if they are both moved by similar good ends. Killmonger, like Rodrigo, lives violently, with sword in hand. But the king refuses his rival with the words, “That is not our way.” Even the way they compete for the throne shows the differences in their character—the use of raw power, wielded as a means to an end, versus the assertion of power that respects our own dignity, our opponent’s humanity, and the common good. T’Challa leads his council but also listens to the community’s concerns; Killmonger works alone. At the end of the film, T’Challa is rightly moved by Killmonger’s concerns for justice in a world of racism and poverty. He recognizes the “not-rightness” of the way things are and, like King, finds himself passionately denouncing them and prompting others to take action. In response, he mobilizes his resources, however, to build up, not tear down.

Our strategies reveal our hearts. In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus exposes the root of our actions, linking wrath and wrathful insults to murder: “You have heard that it was said to those of ancient times, ‘You shall not murder’; and ‘whoever murders shall be liable to judgment.’ But I say to you that if you are angry with a brother or sister, you will be liable to judgment; and if you insult a brother or sister, you will be liable to the council; and if you say, ‘You fool,’ you will be liable to the hell of fire” (Matt. 5:21–22). We do not intend the words “You fool” to restore justice or to even the score—we use them to harm and destroy.39 As King once put it, “Returning violence for violence multiplies violence, adding deeper darkness to a night already devoid of stars. . . . Hate cannot drive out hate: only love can do that.”40

When we find ourselves caught in such a hurtful and hateful vicious cycle, wrath has shrunk our hearts and cut us off from life. Frederick Buechner says, “Of the Seven Deadly Sins, wrath is possibly the most fun. To lick your wounds, to smack your lips over grievances long past, to roll over your tongue the prospect of bitter confrontations still to come, to savor to the last toothsome morsel both the pain you are given and the pain you are giving back—in many ways it is a feast fit for a king. The chief drawback is that what you are wolfing down is yourself. The skeleton at the feast is you.”41

There must be another way.

God’s Anger and Ours

John Calvin famously begins his Institutes by saying that we will never know ourselves unless we first have knowledge of God, in whose image we are made. Let’s take that as a frame as we reflect on the place of anger in our lives. We first turn to the Old Testament to see what God’s character is like. Then we will turn to the incarnate Christ to fill out the picture.

The stereotypical view of God in the Old Testament puts wrath and judgment center stage, but a search for a more comprehensive view of God’s anger turns up both more context and convicting counterevidence. First, what does God get angry about?

In the Old Testament, we find God angered when his people break the commandments—that is, when they are unfaithful to him and when they break faith with each other. If we listen to Moses and the prophets, we hear God’s concerns loud and clear. His people fail to trust him above all and fail to show mercy to each other, especially the most vulnerable. We can see from its targets that God’s anger is roused when we disobey the first and second tables of the law: love God above all, and love your neighbor as yourself (Matt. 22:37–39; Mark 12:29–31). The commandments, according to Aquinas, summarize what we owe God and others in perfect justice, and they are perfectly fulfilled in love. Why is God angry? His anger (like ours) is rooted in what he cares most about. He stands against any violation of love.42 In his anger, then, we see that he will go to any length to defeat anything that thwarts the good of his creation, especially the good of his beloved children.

How does God get angry? Dozens of passages from Exodus through the Psalms and books of the prophets (even the ones preaching judgment on Israel) sound a single refrain, repeated over and over: the Lord is slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love (hesed; see Exod. 34:6; Neh. 9:17; Pss. 86:15; 103:8; Joel 2:13; and Jon. 4:2, among others). Anyone who knows the Scriptures will recognize this characterization of God resounding like a refrain in the narrative of Israel’s history: your God is slow to anger; he abounds in steadfast love. God’s love anchors his relationship to his people. And his love makes him slow to anger.

Proverbs’s portrait of the wise person echoes the same idea: almost all its warnings about anger tell us not to be irritable or easily angered. We have noted that Proverbs offers us abundant practical information about how we should be angry. In Proverbs 14:16–17; 17:27; 22:24–25; 29:1; and 29:22, to sample just a few passages, the writer warns against flying off the handle, becoming quickly and easily enraged, and being hotheaded. Its counsel about human anger repeats almost as many times as the refrain about God’s anger. James’s words in the New Testament—“Let everyone be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to anger; for your anger does not produce God’s righteousness” (1:19–20)—echo the same theme. That this portrait of God and the perfect embodiment of wisdom fits Jesus’s character in the New Testament is, of course, no accident.

Jesus describes himself as “gentle and humble in heart” (Matt. 11:29). Matthew cites Isaiah to describe Christ in the triumphal entry as “gentle” or “lowly” and riding on a humble donkey, in direct contrast to the power and pride displayed by Roman conquerors on warhorses. The Christlike virtues Paul exhorts us to clothe ourselves with include patience and gentleness, qualities echoed in the list of the fruit of the Spirit of Christ (Gal. 5:22–23) and Paul’s description of Jesus in 2 Corinthians (“the humility and gentleness of Christ . . .” [2 Cor. 10:1 NIV]). Certainly, Jesus decisively takes action and exercises authority in many Gospel stories. Yet his overall character remains gentle and marked by humility. And he calls us to be like him (Eph. 5:1–2; Col. 3:9–14).

What about the temple-cleansing story—likely the most memorable episode of Jesus’s anger? It may be worth noting that John describes him not as angry but as consumed with “zeal for [the Lord’s] house” (John 2:7), and the other three Gospels describe his action, not his inner state. By contrast, a lesser-known story in Mark’s Gospel explicitly describes Jesus as angry—an unusual move for the most terse, action-packed Gospel writer. Jesus’s anger in this New Testament passage parallels the Old Testament portrait above. Despite its brevity, the story offers a poignant and moving account.

Again [Jesus] entered the synagogue, and a man was there who had a withered hand. [The religious leaders] watched him to see whether he would cure [the man] on the sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, “Come forward.” Then he said to them, “Is it lawful to do good or to do harm on the sabbath, to save life or to kill?” But they were silent. He looked around at them with anger; he was grieved at their hardness of heart and said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. The Pharisees went out and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, how to destroy him. (Mark 3:1–6)

Jesus feels angry because he loves the man with the shriveled hand and because he sees that the Pharisees refuse to do so. He is deeply frustrated and “grieved at their hardness of heart” toward a brother in need. Their prideful observance of the letter of the law and their sense of “due” has precious little to do with justice toward God or love of neighbor, despite their ostensible piety. They refuse to recognize the image of God in the man right in front of them. They want Jesus to get off their turf and out of their way.

Jesus’s anger clearly targets injustice—but does so with gentleness and love. How does he respond to the religious leaders’ stony silence and refusal to respond? How does Jesus’s anger move him to act? He does not hurt anyone. He does not lash out with words or whips. But neither does he back down. Instead, he heals the man. He authoritatively challenges the leaders, in violation of their supposedly righteous Sabbath laws, and counters their stubborn refusal to do justice and love mercy with a picture of God’s love and justice. He loves; he restores; he sets things right. In doing so, he gives us a character portrait of powerful advocacy carried out with self-possession. And as the end of the passage makes clear, not only does he heal this man, but ultimately, he also accepts the cross to heal the wounds of the world—even those who made themselves his enemies. “He was pierced for our transgressions, . . . and by his wounds we are healed” (Isa. 53:5 NIV). Jesus is a wounded healer.43 When anger rises in us, the desert community recommends that we try to imitate him.

Undoubtedly, God’s anger should be different from ours.44 God has all human history in view; our perspective of what is just may be too small to adequately honor God’s plans and purposes. Perhaps this is why Paul warns the Christians in Rome against prideful expressions of anger: “Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave room for the wrath of God; for it is written, ‘Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord’” (Rom. 12:19). Our anger must show us to be stewards under a God who remains in providential control. Still, in some ways, our anger should imitate God’s—slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, yet so passionate for justice that we will lay down our lives to secure shalom.

Anger, when it is a holy emotion, has justice as its object and love as its root. Justice concerns giving to another what is due. Good anger fuels our passionate and persistent efforts to make sure others get the respect they deserve, to stand against oppression and tyranny, to hold accountable those who cause injury and damage, to honor our commitments and promises, to give equal treatment to the marginalized, and to uphold rightful authority. Motivated by good anger, we hunger and thirst for righteousness, an appetite that depends on justice as its object but on love as its right expression. Anger in these cases adds energy and passion to the execution of justice. The love that underlies it, however, keeps it in check, for love does not seek to destroy the offender but seeks to honor, protect, and restore all good things. In this way, too, our anger can reflect God’s.

In an interview about which side the Roman Catholic Church would take in the culture wars, Pope Francis responded that he hoped the church would not be on either side of the combat but rather would serve as “a field hospital after battle” in which “our first duty is to tend to the wounded.”45 It’s a beautiful image of what Christians can be if they follow Christ.

What Lurks beneath Wrathful Anger

Why does wrath, or vicious anger, pose such a temptation for us? Our wrath betrays our self-love and self-protective schemes. For all our investment in bolstering our fragile egos, the results are extremely tenuous and easily threatened. Recall that wrath is a vice. The problem with human wrath is not merely the damage it may inflict on others but the heart problem behind its excess.

Wrathful anger’s show of force often covers up or overcompensates for our perceived weakness and vulnerability. Like an animal backed into a corner, we’re on the defensive and lashing out because we feel threatened. Aren’t we overly eager to rise to our own angry defense especially when we feel afraid of what others might think? It seems that the roots of wrath may tap into fear as much as pride. Or, more accurately, the fear born of trusting ourselves in pride stands opposed to the freedom and peace of trusting God. If we can look only to ourselves as an ally and a source of security when we are threatened, then we would do well to be afraid—and angry.

Psychologists call anger a “secondary emotion” because it masks other sorts of distress. Most people feel more comfortable striking out at others than acknowledging what’s really eating them up inside. Marriage researchers John and Julie Gottman liken our emotional life to an iceberg: only anger shows above the surface, but fear, grief, and shame lurk hidden beneath.46 Our anger reveals the ways we avoid pain, protecting ourselves with our own power. As with all the vices, though, our power plays show us captive to just another prideful illusion of control. We rage and are outraged when we can’t control or keep at bay the things that hurt us.

Even in grief, it often feels more satisfying to shake our fists at God than to lament over our woundedness. Anger gives us a way to shout “no!” at a world not aligned with our will. Wrath presumes the power to fix and change things. That’s precisely why its energy aids us in addressing brokenness and injustice. In its desire for things to be made right and its forward-looking energy amid obstacles, anger also aligns with hope. Behind the scenes, then, both expressing lament and maintaining hope can serve as formative background practices that mitigate anger.

In the Christian tradition, the psalms of lament give full voice to our forsakenness, brokenheartedness, bewilderment, and sense of betrayal. Jesus himself spoke such words from Psalm 22 on the cross. How much of our anger at others would dissipate if we could face and share our pain, or if, Job-like, we felt allowed to cry out, “How long, O Lord?,” trusting that God hears our cries of distress? When we are willing to acknowledge pain and weep with those who weep, like Christ at Lazarus’s tomb, we make God’s love incarnate to each other. While wrath shuts the other out or lashes out, love enters into the pain and makes it easier to bear. What if we looked for the hurt and vulnerability behind each other’s anger and made lament a routine part of our lives and liturgies?

Practicing hope47 also reframes anger. In its yearning for shalom, hope shares anger’s energy and end. Christian hope finds its voice in prayer and song, both in worship and in daily life. Prayer is an act of hope that embraces both the power and the mercy of God. In hopeful prayer, we are reminded to put all things in God’s hands, trusting that he will make all things new. Hope leads us to pray, “Your kingdom come,” while releasing our images of what the kingdom ought to be like, and how and when it ought to come. Hope says, “Be strong, take heart, and wait for the Lord.”

Our hopes often take the form of song. Take Mary’s song, for example: the Magnificat (Luke 1:46–55) echoes the promises of God to those before her—to Miriam and Moses, to Hannah and David. A contemporary version of her song goes like this: “My heart shall sing of the day you bring; let the fires of your justice burn. Wipe away all tears, for the dawn draws near, and the world is about to turn!”48 Echoing anger’s principal concerns, Mary’s song asks for deliverance from oppression and counts on God to answer injustice with shalom. But her hopeful posture—like Christ’s humility and gentleness—says, “I am the Lord’s servant,” even as she fully expects to be his agent in bringing the kingdom to fruition. What songs do we, like Mary, have in our hearts? What stories and promises fire our vision of who we are and what we are called to become?

Much of my own anger makes me realize that, when push comes to shove, I really don’t trust God to manage the universe. I would much prefer to direct the traffic—shaking my fists and forcing my agenda—than to weep and to wait for him as he slowly walks up the middle of the road, bearing a cross. If practices of lament and hope gradually transform our hearts, whatever remains of our anger will be more of the right stuff, and less wrathful rage.49

Antidotes for Wrath

How do we know if we have a problem with wrath—the hellish habit rather than the holy emotion? And what can we do about it? Let’s return to the Christian tradition’s divided stance on anger to reconsider.

I once assigned my students a Cassian-like exercise in self-examination. For a week, we each kept a journal documenting every time we got angry. (You could just as easily make notes on your phone.) The instructions were to write down the object of your anger (i.e., what are you angry about?) and then rate the intensity of your anger on a scale of 1 to 5 (i.e., 1 if you are mildly irritated and 5 if you are irate—and if you feel compelled to write a paragraph about what made you angry, give yourself an automatic 5). A few weeks later, with cooler heads and more distance from the incidents that provoked us, we reviewed our journaled responses. How many episodes of anger could we label “righteous,” “justified,” “proportionate,” and “good”? And what patterns emerged? Were we angry too often? Or often too angry? Frequently, reactions that seemed perfectly justified and rational at the time ended up looking petty and self-serving in retrospect, and the situations that had occasioned our anger seemed, in hindsight, more trivial than genuinely offensive. Our records were also useful in helping us better see what sorts of things tended to set us off (our “anger triggers”).

No stranger to studying the vices, I fully expected to discover some bad anger, even a preponderance of it, in the results. But the verdict was even harsher than I anticipated: a vanishingly small amount, if any, of our anger counted as good. If this had been a test, we would have flunked outright. We were stunned. Suddenly Cassian’s unflinching advice to lay down all anger didn’t seem so radical anymore.

Remember, the desert fathers and mothers gave others spiritual direction, not a systematic theology. Likely we would concede to Aquinas that in a world full of injustice, we cannot imagine a right response that could never in principle include anger. But what if that is not the point? Evagrius and Cassian crafted manuals for practical discipleship. Their question as pastoral counselors and spiritual directors was this: Given the vast proportion of our anger that harms others and protects the false self, what sorts of spiritual disciplines do we need in order to become more Christlike? As it turns out, the regular purgation of anger would be a wise and worthwhile exercise for most of us. If we are honest in our self-examination, they tell us, getting rid of our bad anger would effectively mean getting rid of all our anger.

How could we translate desert practice into our lives today? If your blood pressure habitually rises when you’re behind the steering wheel, take your wrath for a ride, confronting temptations to rage while also training to become more Christlike “on the road.” As a spiritual discipline, invite Christ into your car. Commit to driving the speed limit for a month (hurry and impatience go together). Wait for each red light with a rhythmic breath prayer (practice waiting for the Lord, attentive to his presence). Pray for the safety of those who speed past or drive recklessly around you (they probably need your intercession more than your epithets).

As desert counsel further teaches, spiritual disciplines and virtue formation must heed our embodied condition, especially since the emotion of anger engages us on such a visceral level. Our physical busyness, tiredness, overstrained bodies, and hurried lifestyles take their toll on our emotional reactions, relationships, and spiritual well-being. Here, too, an anger journal can reveal destructive or dangerous patterns. Do stressful deadlines, fatigue, or physical pain trigger most of your angry outbursts? We will need to honor our bodies’ needs if we hope to remain “slow to anger.” Often enough, that means physically slowing down. If we slept enough, practiced silence and solitude each day, observed the Sabbath weekly, and took real retreats from work to breathe deeply and enjoy our natural surroundings, we might be less well-trained in wrath. If we paused before each activity to take a deep breath and took the time to listen before we spoke, wouldn’t gentleness come more easily to us?

As important as they are, though, such physical strategies for handling anger deal mainly with symptom control. They do not necessarily excavate our hearts to expose the source of the problem. And wrath, as a vice, starts in the heart and mind. Unlearning the habit of wrath requires attending better to our bodies, but it also requires a change of heart, a reordering of practices and priorities, a transformation of vision. Our wrath reveals problematic assumptions about who we think we really are, how much control over ourselves and our world we desire and assume we have, and what makes us feel threatened or insecure. Whereas wrath is rooted in pride, the strength of gentleness is rooted in deep trust.

G. K. Chesterton once quipped, “God commands us to love our neighbors, and also our enemies, because they are often the same people.”50 Sometimes, though, we are our own worst enemy. Like the religious leaders who stood against Jesus, we may stop at nothing to protect our idolized and idealized sense of self.51 The Christian desert tradition offers this story to illustrate the contrast between pride and humility:

The brothers surrounded Abba John the Short when he was sitting in front of the church, and each of them asked him about their thoughts. [He was providing spiritual direction as an elder to a number of younger disciples.]

Another old man flared up in envy at the sight, and said, “Abba John, your cup is full of poison.”

Abba John answered him, “Yes, Father, it is. But you have said this when you can only see the outside. What would you say if you saw the inside, too?”52

Abba John openly acknowledges his defects—the “inside of the cup,” which God already sees. Humility grounds his equanimity and gentleness. His utter dependence on God gives him freedom from the need to defend himself in the same way that a prideful person would. In the face of public insult, his gentle answer turns away wrath (Prov. 15:1).

Gentleness, a virtue that imitates Christ’s own character, does not imply that we never get angry. Nor does it imply that we should refrain from pressing claims of justice against others or from protecting ourselves against those who threaten. Likewise, gentleness does not lessen our wholehearted “no!” and our deep heartache at the world’s wounded, nor does it mitigate our agency or tireless advocacy against broken systems that beat others down. It does mean, however, that anger should not be the primary mark of our character. Jesus might well have been intensely angry when he cleared the temple of the money changers, and he of all human beings must have been acutely aware of the abundance of injustice in the world. Yet no one would dream of describing him as the wrathful type. Those with the virtue of gentleness have mastered their anger, rather than being mastered by it. When they act with anger, they channel its power rather than being swept away by its force.

Gentleness as a character trait—deeply embedded in humility—depends on much more than the power of self-restraint, however. With these virtues, we acknowledge and trust the mysterious combination of justice and mercy that is God’s way of setting things right. Confident that we do indeed have a role to play in addressing injustice, we can seek God’s kingdom and his righteousness with deep trust that “all manner of things shall be well.”53 Only then can anger serve as a holy “power of resistance” to injustice rather than a hellish habit of insisting on our own way.

FURTHER REFLECTION

Keep your own anger journal for a week. Review it later, asking: What are my anger triggers? What do they reveal about my expectations, my hurts, my hopes and plans, my sense of what I deserve, my sense of what I can control? How much of my anger is “good anger”?

When you consider the two strands in the Christian tradition—Aquinas (righteous anger is virtuous) and Cassian (put away all anger because it blinds us in prayer)—which side do you find more persuasive? Did you reconsider after reading the chapter and examining your own life?

What is a virtuous response to injustice? Reflect on how you could incorporate lament, hope, humility, and gentleness into your own training in Christlikeness.

FURTHER READING

Rebecca K. DeYoung, “What Are You Guarding? Virtuous Anger and Lifelong Practice,” in Becoming Good: New Philosophical Essays in Aid of Virtue Development, ed. Adam Pelser and Scott Cleveland (Oxford: Oxford University Press, forthcoming).

Garret Keizer, The Enigma of Anger: Essays on a Sometimes Deadly Sin (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2002).

cY8

8 
Gluttony

Feeding Your Face and Starving Your Heart

A glutton is one who raids the icebox for a cure for spiritual malnutrition.

—Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking

Pounds or Pleasure?

In the supermarket checkout line, the cover of Family Circle magazine vividly displays a chocolate cappuccino pie. The magazine features an article titled, “Trim Your Tummy: 10 Ways to Curb Your Cravings,” with another article just below it titled, “Irresistible Chocolate Desserts.” If combating gluttony requires curbing our cravings for the irresistible, it looks like we are doomed to lose the battle against our guilty pleasures. With food-obsessive mixed messages like this everywhere, should we be surprised that eating disorders are now something every middle-school kid knows about?

Fast-food diets have sent obesity rates soaring, while the diet industry makes billions of dollars a year. Restaurants advertise the caloric intake of each entrée and boast about serving only natural food, but Americans still out-consume the world in beef and burgers. It’s not even clear what counts as food (healthy or not): an average loaf of bread at the supermarket still contains eleven chemical ingredients we can hardly pronounce, and a dessert’s worth of sugar counts as breakfast cleverly disguised as cereal. America’s national obsession with cheese continues unabated, and now we can pair it with upscaled beverages like a wide array of new and expensive craft beers. Unhealthy foods also tend to be cheaper, so the physical consequences of regularly eating them further burdens those already in poverty. Cultural forces shape our desire for food early, and we feel their effects for a lifetime—on our health, our lifestyles, and our economy.

Would you be shocked to discover that the vice of gluttony does not necessarily have much to do with any of this, at least not directly? Our stereotypical picture of the glutton is captured in a cartoon that features an obese man who looks at his belt after dinner and comments, “One more notch. Room for dessert.” Similarly, a billboard ad for a fitness center features a little green alien issuing a warning: “When they come, they’ll eat the fat ones first.” (Their target audience retaliated with a sidewalk protest, bearing signs that said, “Eat me!”) And the spoof ad for gluttony in Harper’s magazine depicts an enormously overweight person leaping into a pool of water, while a SeaWorld-style audience looks on, mouths agape. The ad’s caption reads, “The Glutton Society: Helping People Make the Most of Themselves for Over 100 Years.” But what if the label of gluttony doesn’t first apply to overeating and being overweight, or forgoing the diet for the doughnuts? What if your extra pounds won’t be enough to tip the scales of judgment further toward sin? Can health-food eaters, the skim-milk latte crowd, and the gourmands be as gluttonous as the junk-food junkies? What about those of us who eat whatever food is fast, convenient, and easy, without giving it much thought at all? People who carry too much weight already bear regular ridicule and shaming. They likely don’t need to be burdened by shouldering the guilt of gluttony, too, while thinner people unfairly get free moral credit for their fast metabolism. Gluttony, like many of the other vices we are studying, has been both oversimplified and misunderstood.

The vice of gluttony names a habit of the heart. Its routine quest for gratification wears a groove in our character, accustoming us to disordered desires. Because we can’t see other people’s hearts and habits of thought, we tend to identify sinful tendencies solely by their behavioral symptoms. Gluttony’s behavioral cues are more complex than we might think, however. We know gluttony must have something to do with eating, and maybe drinking too. Our certainty, however, should end there. How does the mundane physical act of taking in food impact our spiritual life anyway?

Put simply, this vice gluts on pleasure, reducing human life to self-gratification. The glutton salivates at the thought of his or her own pleasure. Excessive pleasure. Immediate, tangible pleasure. Fundamentally, gluttony is primarily not about how much we’re eating but about how much pleasure we take in eating and why. As Aquinas puts it, “Gluttony primarily and intrinsically signifies the intemperate desire to consume food, not the intemperate consumption of food.” “It is a case of gluttony,” he says, “only when we knowingly exceed the measure in eating from a desire for the pleasures of the palate.”1

When we are hungry, we naturally enjoy eating and the satisfaction of feeling full that follows. These pleasures, the food itself, and the act of eating are all good, God-given gifts. God commanded human beings to eat good, pleasing, and delicious fruit in the garden of Eden, and the Gospels show Jesus feasting enough to draw criticism. In the early church, the Spirit swept away the former restrictions on unclean foods. Gluttony, like all the vices, begins with something created good. But sin creeps in and corrupts these pleasures when our desires for them run out of control. Paul talks about gluttony and lust in terms of a person being “mastered” by pleasure (1 Cor. 6:12); elsewhere he speaks of making a god of our stomachs (Phil. 3:19). Gluttony’s status as a vice depends on personal pleasure dominating everything else that’s important. This vice degrades us into being mere self-satisfaction seekers. How can we tell that we have turned pleasure into an idol? Our desire for pleasure can grow so obsessive and all-consuming that we may disregard the real needs of both body and soul to the point of eating ourselves to death.2

The main question we should ask ourselves about food and drink, therefore, is not, “How much is too much?” but, “How dominated by the desire for this pleasure am I?” Or, to put the discernment question in terms of detachment, “How difficult would it be to have to give it up or do without it?” Trouble starts when gluttony reduces eating to an exercise in rewarding ourselves with pleasure perks, consuming whatever we think will make us full and satisfied. The pursuit of pleasure can be obsessively and intentionally sought or so habitually ingrained that it becomes mindless. As gluttons, we use food as a drug, as a means of giving ourselves a needed “pleasure fix” rather than simply and genuinely enjoying it.

Gluttony’s excessive pursuit of the pleasures of the table eventually dulls our appreciation for the food we eat, the pleasure we take in eating it, those with whom we eat, and the God who created what we eat and gave us the ability to take pleasure in it. As Augustine put it, “Virtuous people avail themselves of the things of this life with the moderation of a user, not the attachment of a lover.”3 Or, as Jesus Christ put it, we were not meant to live “by bread alone” (Luke 4:4). Food and pleasure are goods, not gods. There is more to human happiness than gluttony’s quest for gratification.

We Like It “FRESH”

In the Middle Ages, Gregory the Great gave gluttony its own memorable ditty: “Too daintily, too sumptuously, too hastily, too greedily, too much.” The little verse probably lacked a catchy tune, but it did have the benefit of summarizing the forms of gluttony. A contemporary version catalogs the same five with the acronym FRESH: eating fastidiously, ravenously, excessively, sumptuously, and hastily.4 Each form of gluttony embodies a disordered way we can succumb to the pleasure of eating, regardless of whether that shows in our table manners or on our bathroom scales.

Eating “too daintily” or “fastidiously” is gluttony’s first form. Along with eating “too sumptuously,” this form of gluttony primarily has to do with seeking pleasure in what we eat. The other three show gluttonous pleasure-seeking expressed in how we eat. In The Screwtape Letters, C. S. Lewis offers an example of eating too fastidiously that may unseat our typical picture of gluttony. One devil boasts to the other that they have hoodwinked the human race into thinking that they have overcome gluttony because they do not overeat. But, the devils gloat, their demonic influence merely switched strategies—now cleverly tempting us into “the gluttony of delicacy” instead of “the gluttony of excess.” Lewis’s devil describes a woman plagued by the gluttony of delicacy:

She is a positive terror to hostesses and servants. She is always turning from what has been offered to her to say with a demure little sigh and a smile “Oh please, please . . . all I want is a cup of tea, weak but not too weak, and the teeniest weeniest bit of really crisp toast.” You see? Because what she wants is smaller and less costly than what has been set before her, she never recognizes as gluttony her determination to get what she wants, however troublesome it may be to others. . . . The real value of the quiet, unobtrusive work which [the devil] has been doing for years on this old woman can be gauged by the way in which her belly now dominates her whole life. The woman is in what may be called the “All-I-want” state of mind.5

Have you ever entertained a guest for whom nothing is ever quite right or who makes half a dozen special requests about their meal—“Oh, I don’t like that toasted.” “No, no, I never eat such and such.” Are you the predictably dissatisfied restaurant patron who regularly sends the plate back to the kitchen . . . two or three times? Do you insist on beverages (coffee, wine, beer, soda) of a certain brand or quality, declining to drink if you can’t have exactly that kind? Is your fussiness about food burdensome to others with whom you eat? Is your lack of contentment a perennial challenge to their attempts at hospitality and service? Whatever their outward symptoms, fastidious gluttons arrive at the table focused on their expectation of getting a certain pleasure, and they have an equally focused determination to do whatever it takes to get it. They may use good manners and eat moderate amounts, but the desire behind their experience is the drive to secure a certain pleasure for themselves, regardless of how others are put out or put off by their demands.

Remember that we are talking about the glutton as someone with a habit—the person who typically or regularly has this sort of reaction. All gluttons have an excessive and narrow preoccupation with their own satisfaction. The label “eating too daintily” pinpoints their concern for one and only one thing: making their own experience of eating or drinking pleasurable. To test yourself for this form of gluttony, ask yourself whether the experience is spoiled for you if what you eat or drink isn’t just what you expected or liked or wanted.

Gregory’s second form of gluttony—eating “too sumptuously”—resembles the picky eater’s problem in its preoccupation with what we eat. But this glutton excessively seeks the pleasures of satiety and fullness, so she chooses foods that promise this feeling. (Low-carb diets work on the same principle, prescribing protein and fat because they offer maximal satisfaction and keep you feeling full longer.) The typical American daily menu—heavy on the beef, with everything else buttered and battered and fried in fat and served with a cheese or cream sauce—follows the same recipe for satisfaction. And don’t forget chocolate for dessert. These foods taste rich and are filling. In many Christian traditions, the typical Lenten fast directly targeted excessive desire for just such satisfying and sumptuous pleasures by asking Christians to abstain from meat and dairy products and to restrict their consumption to bread and vegetables instead. By contrast, the regular expectation of such pleasures has formed an entire nation’s eating habits.

To understand this form of gluttony, it’s important to realize that we eat not just because food tastes good but also because we desire the satisfaction of feeling full. William Ian Miller points out that dieting would be easy if it were enough to taste the food and then spit it out.6 We want not only to taste what we eat but also to fill ourselves and be filled by it.

Illustrating these two forms of gluttony at once—that is, both eating fastidiously and eating too sumptuously—erstwhile religious dieting guru Gwen Shamblin, founder of the Weigh Down Workshop (a ’90s fad), offers the following “Christian” advice on how to enjoy a meal on her dieting plan:

Once you feel this hunger, select regular foods that you desire. The foods you want are not evil. This includes pizza, Fritos, sour cream, desserts, and ice cream. . . .

. . . Several selections are around [my] house, but the leftover barbecue looks the best. I served myself barbecue, coleslaw, beans, buttered roll, diet soda and a brownie. What I do is taste and rate each food item on the plate. . . .

. . . You will now want to eat your favorite foods first, except for dessert (unless that is what you want). Why? Because you cannot be certain as to when you are going to be full, and once you feel the full feeling, leaving the least-favorite foods on your plate will be easier than leaving the favorite.

I even rate bites inside each category. For example, I searched around in the pork for the juiciest pieces. Since I was approaching full by the time I got to the brownie, I ate the bites that had the most pecans in them. I left some of every food category on my plate, but the juiciest, best morsels were in my stomach. My plate looked as if it had been dissected! And what was left was not appealing.7

The other three forms of gluttony may strike us as more familiar: eating too hastily, too greedily (“ravenously”), and too much (“excessively”). As we might expect, they often go together. My children coined the term “shoveling” for someone who eats too quickly, too greedily, and too much all at once. The shoveler offers us a living picture of the verse, “All human toil is for the mouth, yet the appetite is not satisfied” (Eccles. 6:7). Hasty eating can include putting in another bite before the last is chewed and swallowed, but it also pinpoints the (modern or monastic) sneaky snacker—that is, the person dipping into the cupboard, sampling the stew, or nibbling chips before the appointed hour because they can’t resist or be without for long, especially regarding the food right under their noses.

The excessive overeater is willing to eat past the point of fullness for the sake of indulging her tastes. Even when she knows she will feel sick or bloated later, she takes another helping, savoring every mouthful. Like Augustus Gloop in Roald Dahl’s Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, she feels full, but can’t resist just one more bite. Or, she thinks, “I’m stuffed, but that cheesecake is too wonderful to turn down.” She takes every opportunity to “supersize it!” because her eyes are always bigger than her stomach, and her appetite for the pleasure of the moment exceeds whatever is sufficient to meet her real bodily needs. The brownie mix advertising that it has “More than two bars of chocolate in every box!” caters to the glutton who can never have enough of a good thing. Although this type of glutton does not intend harm to her body, she is willing to risk or ignore the consequences later if it means getting to enjoy more pleasure now.

The greedy eater often eats quickly to make sure he gets as much of the pleasurable dish as he wants before anyone else can elbow in and get to it before him. He fears the disappointment of going back for more and finding that the box of pizza is already empty or that someone else beat him to the last piece of chocolate dessert. Like an overgrasping hoarder, the greedy eater will tend to want to pile his plate high on the first trip to the buffet, taking two helpings right away to prevent the dissatisfaction of returning later and finding nothing left. Aquinas depicts intemperance as a childish sin because of the way such gluttons for pleasure, like children, live under the domination of their appetites, unabashedly behaving according to their wants (even disregarding social proprieties).

I once made the unfortunate parenting decision of allowing my child to have the most sugary confection off the doughnut rack at the bakery. The chocolate cake doughnut, itself already thickly frosted, was filled with a three-inch-high swirl of whipped chocolate mousse, and topped off with an artificially multicolored, sugar-coated gummy worm. According to my prudential calculations, a bite or two of this ridiculous pastry would quickly sicken the child, who would then more agreeably accept my reasonable judgment that it was too disgusting for human consumption. Unfortunately, Aquinas (and Screwtape) turned out to be right—my child delightedly inhaled the whole thing with gusto. Not only that, but the next time we visited the store, he begged for it again. Indulgence had only whetted and ramped up his appetite. Feeding a toddler’s desire for pleasure will only escalate it, not dampen it. As adults, how much have our tastes matured?

When we see these last three forms of gluttony in ourselves, we might regard our condition as a little pathetic. How undignified to find the image-bearers God made as the crown of creation—able to compose symphonies, invent spacecraft, and enjoy spiritual fellowship with God himself—sitting hunched over a plate of food, mouth overstuffed, shoving more in as if we can never get enough. But that’s the point of reflecting on what sort of creature we are. Our humanity means we are more than material beings, made for fulfillment well beyond anything that the pleasures of the table can offer us.

We have said that eating either too fastidiously or too sumptuously usually expresses a desire for pleasure that’s focused on what is being eaten, while eating too hastily, too greedily, and too much are forms of gluttony that express excessive desire for pleasure in how we eat. Note that we can go wrong in what we eat, or we can go wrong in how we eat, or both at once, just as we can be angry at the wrong target, or express anger with disproportionate vehemence, or both at once. It is just as possible to eat healthy and high-quality foods in a manner that still reveals desires gone awry as it is to overindulge on junk food. In all cases of gluttony, however, what we consume and how we consume it give us important clues about why we are eating. Examining our hearts for gluttony demands asking not whether we are fat or thin, polite or impolite, high- or low-brow in our tastes, but whether we are eating to satisfy our own wants in a way that elevates our own satisfaction above other good things.

A while ago I experimented with giving up sweets and snacks entirely for a few weeks. I found, to my chagrin, that I had subconsciously been scheduling my entire day around food. I was either eating something or anticipating the pleasure of eating most of the time. I looked forward to special events like parties and social gatherings as much for the food (or drink, like coffee or wine) that would be there as for the people. If the best food was gone before I arrived, my disappointment would tinge my assessment of the event. I saw the treats as the perk I deserved for showing up. At work, I enjoyed breaks not because they gave me a mental reprieve but because they gave me permission to eat something—and eating something was my mental reprieve. I couldn’t wait to get the kids in bed at night so that I could sit back and enjoy dessert, my reward for surviving the day. I found this discovery about myself rather horrifying. Several weeks into the practice of giving up sweets, however, I found that it felt good to go into a meal hungry and to stop eating before I was overly full. Vegetables tasted better if I hadn’t munched on sweets all afternoon. I appreciated a simple dinner after forgoing the afternoon snack, and I felt better about myself too. Like C. S. Lewis’s old woman, I had been relying on the pleasure of food to compensate for the lack of rest, relaxation, and joy in an overstressed life. I was behaving toward food like a single-minded, starving animal would, because I had starved my life of other things that kept me fully human (more on this story in chap. 10). Buechner sums up such a condition well, defining a glutton as “one who raids the icebox for a cure for spiritual malnutrition.”8

A Taste of the Good Life

Gluttons judge the world from the perspective of satisfying their own desire for pleasure. The pleasure they have in mind, however, is one that we have as material, embodied creatures—gluttons crave physical creature comforts. The effect of this focus is, inevitably, dissatisfaction. Why?

First, no matter how little or how much food we have, indulging our bodily desires offers only temporary satisfaction. Evagrius writes: “If you give yourself over to the desire for food, nothing will suffice to fulfil your pleasure, for the desire for food is a fire that ever takes in and is ever in flames.”9 No matter how delightfully delicious the pleasure we take in eating, we will always get hungry again. The pleasure doesn’t last. An entire book of the Bible—Ecclesiastes—makes this point. In its words, a life devoted to such pleasure-seeking has a predictable result: “the appetite is not satisfied.” This explains why our desires tend to escalate. We need “more and better” than the physical pleasure we already have to make us feel good and fill us up. That’s the trouble with instant gratification: it only gratifies for an instant. Gluttony’s insatiability thus stands opposed to godly contentment (1 Tim. 6:6) and gratitude.

Second, as human beings, we are made to find our flourishing in something more than temporary, physical pleasures. Fulfilling our desire for the pleasure of eating doesn’t fill up the whole person. It still leaves our desires for spiritual goods (e.g., love, friendship, identity, belonging, meaning) empty—hence our compensatory eating of “comfort foods.” If we neglect to fill those spiritual desires for long enough, they tend to become obscured from view. Instead, we find ourselves overly preoccupied with whatever is in immediate sights and under our noses. Our pursuit of such things draws us into an escalating and futile cycle of attempting to avoid spiritual starvation by indulging ourselves physically. When gluttony becomes a habit, we have effectively trained ourselves to appreciate the latter goods to the eclipse of the former. Traditional pictures portray the glutton as more animal-like than human.10 Animals go straight for food without thought for manners, conversation, health, or social commerce—that is, without attention to the symbolic or social aspects of eating that make it fully human or to the human goods that lie beyond the serving platter. When in the thrall of vice, if gluttons are exposed to spiritual pleasures, they fail to notice them or are left cold. When feelings of emptiness threaten, they reach for the quick fix of chocolate, soothing alcohol, a nice meal out, mac and cheese, or the bag of chips close at hand, not to resources that can satisfy them deep down. When we become entrenched in gluttony because we have not restrained or retrained our desires for physical enjoyment, eventually that is the only kind of pleasure we can appreciate, even though it leaves us emotionally depleted and spiritually starved.

Think about the ways we have already acquiesced to gluttony’s ramped-up demands for physical pleasure. Our society has invented things like chewing gum so that we can have the pleasant taste that comes from putting something in our mouths and chewing it and swallowing minty saliva without actually taking in any food or calories. Philosopher Slavoj Žižek once called Diet Coke the drink of nihilists because it has “nothing” (nihil) in every single nutrient category on the label. Yet it remains the beverage of choice for millions of Americans, who enjoy the taste but choose it precisely for its lack of nutritional content. We are hard-pressed to find foods in the supermarket without added sugars or sweeteners. Modern appetites also drive us to invent chemical substitutes for actual foods because they taste better and cost less to produce. Inventions like Olestra—a fat substitute in products like potato chips and microwave popcorn—help us enjoy these foods’ great fatty taste without itself being a digestible substance. Under the guise of manifold new products and “lighter” options of bewildering variety, we actually consume more artificial filler-ingredients and food substitutes, such as soy or corn thickeners, than the advertised product. Add all this up and our eating habits sound pretty perverse: we choose certain foods because they have no calories, chew things not meant to be swallowed, eat products that have been manufactured to look like food, and consume substances that cannot be digested, all so that we can have the unrestricted pleasures of eating while carefully bracketing the real nature and function of food itself. Without caloric consequences, our consumption is limited only by the amount of pleasure we crave, not by any bodily need, function, or capacity. Sometimes our food consumption looks like the moral equivalent of substance abuse, however legal.

Getting beyond Guilty Pleasures

If we take these critical observations too far, however, we might start to feel guilty about any pleasure we may take in eating, especially if it is intense. Can we really relish a meal or dessert or glass of wine without being vicious? Calling gluttony a vice should not slap a “sinful” label on food itself, or eating it, or even enjoying it. On the contrary, Aquinas remarks that the more natural and necessary the activity, the more pleasure God designed to accompany it.11 Aquinas counts eating, an activity necessary for self-preservation, as a case in point. God made food good for our bodies and good-tasting. He designed eating and drinking to give us pleasure. Our bodies rightly need food, and our taste buds enable us to enjoy it—whether sweet, sour, salty, bitter, or a savory combination. He’s also given us the creativity to concoct culinary delights of all kinds. That’s all right and good. Then how do we distinguish between the right sort of enjoyment and the wrong sort?

As we have already seen in previous chapters, we can often understand vices better when we contrast them with opposing virtues. In fact, for every moral virtue, Aristotle and Aquinas typically identify two vices: one takes a good thing too far in one direction, and the other takes it to the opposite extreme. For example, the virtue of courage has two opposing vices paired with it—rashness and cowardice. Courage names the virtue of handling fear well. Someone with courage fears the right things, in the right way, and at the right time, as years of formative emotional training have prepared her to do. The courageous person feels fear when and as she should but doesn’t let her fear keep her from doing the right thing.

The vice of rashness opposes the virtue of courage because the rash person has a habit of rushing headlong into danger or difficulty without due caution or apprehension. A rash person does not properly appreciate the value of her own life, so she will risk it unnecessarily or heedlessly. (Consider brash characters such as Han Solo from Star Wars and Sirius Black from Harry Potter.) It is one thing to risk your life running into a burning house to save a child; it is another thing to perform a life-threatening stunt or to recklessly show off. The rash person doesn’t feel fear in the right way, about the right things, or at the right time. As a rule, she isn’t afraid enough of things that could genuinely threaten the good of her own life, and she isn’t careful enough when risking things of genuine value. On the other hand, the person with the vice of cowardice is too afraid—more afraid than she should be, afraid when she shouldn’t be, and afraid of things that don’t warrant it. Fear holds the coward back from doing the right thing. Overcaution is her problem. She is so fearful of what threatens her that she can’t properly value and stand up for other things that are worth risking or sacrificing herself for. (Contrast Sirius Black with Peter Pettigrew, for example.)12

Both vices—rashness and cowardice—involve feeling the emotion of fear in the wrong way and therefore handling it (and other good things) badly. But they do so in opposite ways: with the first vice, we are deficient in fear, and with the second, our fear is excessive. Virtue follows a middle way between them, calibrating emotions to comport with a reasonable pursuit of human goodness overall.13 Human virtue is possible because the gradual moral formation of our fears and desires is also possible. We need practice to mature in virtue. (See chap. 10 for more on that process.)

The desire for the pleasure of eating and drinking, rightly ordered by the virtue of temperance (so called because we usually need to “temper” these desires), follows the same pattern. The desire for the pleasure of eating, like our capacity to feel fear, comes as part of the repertoire of our natural and God-given responses to the world. The emotional response of fear alerts us to real threats to our protection. Desires for pleasure motivate eating and drinking that sustains our bodies and therefore our lives.14 Both emotional reactions are good and useful for physical and physically vulnerable creatures like us.

How then does our desire for food and the pleasure we take in eating it get distorted? Left untutored, these desires can grow so powerful that they strain our control over them, swelling beyond the use for which God designed them and running roughshod over other good desires, sometimes even drowning them out altogether. When they do so, we have the vice of gluttony, a vice of excess. (To be clear, by excess and deficiency, we refer to the quality of the desire in us—i.e., how badly we want something or how strongly we are attached to it.)

Things easily go haywire in this area of human life, especially since we eat and drink as part of our everyday routine. That’s precisely why the desert fathers and mothers practiced scrutinizing their thoughts and prized discretion about their emotional reactions. Wary of the cumulative effect of indulged desire, they might first instruct us to exercise greater watchfulness and more frequent self-examination.15

Our account would be incomplete, however, if we did not also identify a vice of deficiency opposed to gluttony’s excess—namely, the lack of appreciation for the pleasure of food and drink, a vice Aristotle called “insensitivity.” If we condemn natural feelings as evil, or if we become unable to enjoy the things God meant us to enjoy, then we have become less than we are meant to be and our lives comparably poorer. If we reduce our eating to a bread-and-water subsistence regimen and make eating into a necessary evil that we must merely endure, we will have lost something good. As Christ’s incarnation and bodily resurrection show us, our bodies count as part of human nature. It’s important for virtue and human flourishing to honor and appreciate our physicality and bodily experience.

The classic film Babette’s Feast illustrates the impoverishment of a life stripped of enjoyment of the pleasures of the table. Babette, a French chef who arrives incognito in a pietistic Puritan community as a refugee, serves an austere household of two sisters. When she unexpectedly comes into a fortune, Babette serves them a banquet fit for royalty. Babette shows the little community for whom she cooks her feast that they have flattened and beaten down their ability to appreciate the real goodness of creation by insisting on a joyless asceticism about food.16 To savor a sip of fine wine or to celebrate a Thanksgiving feast rightly expresses proper enjoyment, not forbidden pleasure. Even in the extreme context of early Christian desert asceticism, with its strict regimen of just a little bread, oil, and water, the monk or nun fasting in the cell was expected not only to offer guests a meal but to join them in eating it, even if it meant temporarily breaking a fast. By fasting, they did not aim at restrained desire for its own sake. Instead, they practiced disciplining their own desires to better serve others and wholeheartedly enjoy communion with God. When these hermits regularly joined together on Sunday, they worshiped but also shared a meal. To have too little desire—the vice of insensitivity—and shun good things therefore counts as a disordered attitude along with having too much desire—the vice of gluttony.

Fasting excessively makes a similar mistake, as Aquinas explains: “Reason does not retrench so much from one’s food as to refuse nature its necessary support: thus Jerome says, ‘It matters not whether you are a long or a short time in destroying yourself, since to afflict the body immoderately, whether by excessive lack of nourishment, or by eating or sleeping too little, is to offer a sacrifice of stolen goods.’”17 Elsewhere he quotes Gregory the Great on the same point: we can fail to love and care for ourselves properly through deficiency as well as excess. “Gregory says in his work Moralia: ‘The flesh when restrained more than right is often weakened even for the performance of good deeds, so that while hastening to stifle the forces of sin within, it does not have enough strength to pray or preach. And so while pursuing the enemy, we slay the citizen we love.’”18 Because God designed our bodies with sensitive taste buds and strong natural desires to assuage our hunger and thirst, and because staying alive demands that we not give up food altogether, however, most of us struggle more with gluttony than with its opposite vice. Even back in the fifth century BC, Aristotle observes in his ethical reflections that human beings in general lean further toward excess than deficiency when it comes to pleasure (especially bodily pleasures). So he offers the following advice: counterbalance the desires drawing you toward the extreme of excess by aiming in the opposite direction, at what looks deficient. Following such commonsense counsel, you will more likely hit the golden mean of virtue between both extremes. And with repeated action comes well-formed desire.

Such advice might seem obvious (but still hard to follow). Importantly, however, Aristotle argues that training our desires counts as a crucial part of our character formation—training that “makes a very great difference, or rather, all the difference.” He says, “For moral excellence is concerned with pleasures and pains; it is on account of the pleasure that we do bad things, and on account of the pain that we abstain from noble ones. Hence we ought to have been brought up in a particular way from our very youth, as Plato says, so as both to delight in and to be pained by the things that we ought; for this is the right education.”19 The ancient Greeks thought it obvious that aligning our desires with what is right and good does not come automatically; our initial desires, like immature children, need to be tutored and trained as part of a normal developmental process. Rightly forming our desires requires intentionality and exertion (lest other social and cultural forces form them without our recognizing it). As with practicing a musical instrument or learning to read, we might need years of training before we can even recognize and appreciate certain goods at stake, including the full range of human goods open to us. But our desires—whether well or poorly trained—will shape our ability to see, long for, and enjoy what is good and appropriate, and they will move us to act accordingly.20 This is habit formation’s cumulative effect, as Aristotle notes above. Philosopher Iris Murdoch once described the goal of virtue formation this way: “It is a [moral] task to come to see the world as it is.”21

How do we discover the deeper human goods at stake here without the screen of self-indulgence blocking them from view? How do we find fulfillment beyond the tantalizing immediacy of a full plate? In the rest of this chapter, we’ll look at some ways to realign our view of the full range of goods at stake and to double-check our desires for the pleasure of eating and drinking for distorting effects.

Bread and Water, Bread and Wine

Augustine also offers some practical advice on avoiding gluttony. According to his counsel, what or how much food we eat makes no difference whatsoever to virtue, as long as we are eating in a way that is appropriate to our health, the people we live with, and our vocation.22 Human beings, he points out, are created for a life encompassing goods beyond mere physical subsistence. Therefore, our eating should be regulated not only by what is physically necessary for life and health but also by what is “becoming” or “befitting” all that God calls us to be and do. Further, in our pursuit of pleasure, we must also be attentive to those with whom we live out that calling. To test what really matters to us, he suggests a thought experiment in detachment: whatever and whenever we eat, are we so overly attached to the pleasure that we could not easily and uncomplainingly choose to give it up when duty or necessity requires this?23 Like scrutinizing every ingredient on a nutritional label, this might seem too complicated. Some further explanation of his advice may prove helpful.

First, Augustine tells us that our usual stereotypes about gluttons may not be on target—reminding us that we can’t necessarily pick them out by what they’re eating or how much or how often. Someone who is pregnant with twins may eat every two hours; a professional athlete may consume more at each meal than a nonathlete; a diabetic has to avoid more sugar than others; and babies need cholesterol in their diet, while adults should avoid it. No simple rule, therefore, can tell us what or how much to eat. (Aquinas accordingly ascribes judgments about what and how much we ought to eat in order to be healthy to the art of medicine—nutritionists, in today’s terminology—and not to moral theory.)24 The first of Augustine’s general guidelines for measuring our judgments about appropriate attachments to the pleasure of eating and drinking is this: Are we eating in a way that contributes to or at least maintains our overall health and well-being? If our pleasure from certain foods means that we consume them instead of getting the nutrients we really need, or if we eat pleasurable things even though they damage our body’s function, this signals a problem. Sensory desire is overriding judgments about our overall good. We need to eat well enough for our bodies to work well. Mistreatment of the body—by excess or deficiency—belies a flawed sort of self-love. Just as good parents know that their children’s appetites need a certain amount of discipline (e.g., limiting their access to chocolate doughnuts!), our love for our bodies precludes unguided self-indulgence.25

Augustine’s second guideline tells us to widen our concern beyond ourselves. Our personal physical health surely matters, but it isn’t the only good at stake in eating: we also need to have concern for those with whom we live. For human beings, eating is a social act that forms social bonds. How and what and why we eat should reflect what is appropriate given the needs of others in our family and our community. If we willingly flout justice, generosity, or even etiquette just to get our taste buds on some delicious morsel, we run afoul of this guideline. If we are willing to damage or deprive others to gratify our own desire for pleasure, we should recognize this as a symptom of gluttony. The examples vary widely, including eating the last or best portion ourselves without asking if others at the table needed or wanted some, serving or buying unhealthy foods for our children because we cannot restrain our own appetites for them, keeping foods that we like constantly available in the house when a family member or housemate is not allowed to eat them, or even being so absorbed in eating a delicious meal that we neglect to engage in conversation with others around the table. Is our desire to eat whatever gives us pleasure taking precedence over the good of others with whom we are eating? Is our own pleasure-seeking getting in the way of enjoying being together with others at the table?

A Nigerian student of mine described his family’s custom of serving the eldest child first and giving the eldest the largest helping. That child had to eat slowly enough, however, that if a younger child who finished first was still hungry, that younger child would be served seconds off the eldest child’s plate. The eldest child’s eating—for pleasure and for fullness—was thus always disciplined by and responsive to the needs of others eating with him or her. Likewise, most cultures serve their guests the first and finest portions. Such social customs require curbing our individual desires for pleasure.

Today, many ethical thinkers are stretching our imagination beyond our own dining room table to ask how others—other neighborhoods, nations, animals, and ecosystems—are affected by our eating? If we widen the frame further, we realize that there are more goods in the picture than merely our own tastes and needs.

The third guideline moves us a step further. While the first guideline tells us to double-check that our desire for pleasure isn’t interfering with our own physical good, the good of health,26 and the second reminds us to double-check that the good of others, and our relationship with them, isn’t being compromised by our cravings, the final guideline tells us to honor the spiritual purpose for which we were created. We have God-given gifts and assignments to carry out in the world as citizens of God’s kingdom. Such vocations bring extra factors into play in our decisions about how to handle our desires for food. For example, as Christians, regular fasting may appropriately play a larger and more necessary role in our choices about how often and what to eat, reaching beyond the all-things-in-moderation advice the Greek philosophers regularly offer. Greater abstinence from food may help us focus on spiritual goods and focus our prayers in a way that discipleship in general or a particular kingdom task requires. Our eating should not be ruled by our desire for pleasure; instead, it should be regulated by whatever befits our flourishing as people created for eternal communion with God.

Severe and regular restriction of food and drink—such as the asceticism of the desert fathers and mothers or the less severe rule of Benedictine monastics—might be inappropriate for, say, a head of state entertaining foreign dignitaries at a formal dinner or someone hosting a wedding celebration, since the dignity of office and the goods of hospitality and celebration make serving food of higher quality and quantity right and good in these social contexts. To take a different case, perhaps being a parent or a teacher of children means that we curb our own desires and consumption beyond what we might otherwise choose, in hopes of setting a good example and encouraging good habit formation in them. Or an athlete may choose foods not by how good they taste but by the extra nutrients and calories her body needs to perform at its best. Or perhaps we are Christians living in an overconsumptive culture, and we want to lean against the pull of assimilation by bearing witness to a different way of life. Aquinas claims that those like himself who dedicate their lives to bearing spiritual fruit rather than physical progeny have a vocation that limits the pleasure of eating beyond what is right for most people in families. A nursing mother’s life might revolve around feedings and food schedules; her calling to love and care for the most vulnerable demands an intimate relationship with nourishment. A pastor I know fasts every Wednesday, along with a regular regimen of prayer, solitude, and immersion in Scripture: in his calling, he needs these disciplines to maintain the integrity of his ministry and stay humbly centered on his need for Christ. The desert fathers and mothers broke their fasts when a guest arrived for the sake of hospitality. The point of all these examples is this: who we are called to be and what we are called to do as Christ-followers add further considerations of appropriateness to decisions about what, why, and how to eat. Good formation means pursuing our good as whole persons in our practices of eating as in all other areas of life—not just attending to our physical needs or desires for gratification. Gluttony, by contrast, would make our own pleasure the only, or the primary, consideration.

You are What You Eat

Eating is not merely a physical act for us. Like sexual activity, it also expresses our humanity and identity, with all the social and symbolic value that involves. As an analogy, take the work of a soldier. One of my students served as a US Marine. After a deployment abroad he once brought me an MRE—a “Meal Ready to Eat.” These meals come in a thick brown vinyl package and include an entrée; crackers with cheese, peanut butter, or jelly; a dessert or snack (the pound cake isn’t bad); a dry-mix packet of cider, coffee, or hot cocoa; tiny packets of salt, pepper, and Tabasco sauce; plastic silverware and a napkin; and a flameless ration heater that, when combined with water, produces a chemical reaction hot enough to cook the entrée. The military designs MREs to last for several years unopened, to survive temperatures from -60 to 120 degrees Fahrenheit, and to withstand a parachute drop from 1,250 feet (or 100 feet, from a helicopter, without a chute). The meals provide soldiers in the field with the sustenance they need to perform their mission until they can return to base camp. Some Marines I knew had eaten meals like this for weeks on end when they were deployed overseas on a mission.

Serving as a Marine, especially in the field of operations, involves personal discipline and teamwork dedicated to achieving a common mission. My student’s harrowing stories made clear that if a Marine did not subordinate his desire for pleasure to the demands of his mission, he could seriously endanger himself and his comrades. He would also jeopardize his effectiveness in carrying out his assignment. The military designed MREs for the purpose of providing maximal mission support. Note, however, that even in the remote desert, utensils and a napkin were provided, serving to humanize consumption. And the fare, which included spices and desserts, was intended to be appetizing (although I am told that some Marines put the Tabasco sauce on everything). Eating should still be pleasurable. But clearly, self-indulgence has no place in the character of a Marine on duty. Their eating habits and daily discipline have social consequences, and the way they eat expresses both their identity and their commitment to their corporate mission.

Extending this analogy to the Christian life, we can ask ourselves whether our eating habits serve our own pleasure more than they serve our spiritual mission. Given what God has asked each of us to do and be, does our pursuit of and attachment to pleasure equip us well to live out that identity and carry out that mission? Have we disciplined our bodies and appetites to be our “willing partners” in a life of discipleship?27 Scot McKnight notes that “bodily discipline prepares a Christian for the long haul,”28 and Dallas Willard recommends the “systematic practice” of self-denial and self-restraint because it teaches us to endure “deprivations of all kinds” while maintaining “a clear and constant sense of [our] resources in God.”29 If we learn through daily habit to be less dependent on having our desires met now, we will be free to turn our attention to goods beyond ourselves that require us to wait—primarily, eternal goods. The glutton, by contrast, eats now and for himself alone. His mission is to serve himself by gratifying his own appetites, the sooner the better. We could call his mission objectives “my pleasure first” and “my pleasure now,” since he orders the rest of his life around those two things. His god is his belly, and he honors its daily demands faithfully.

In the military, new recruits are not thrown straight into combat. Nobody would dream of immediately subjecting them to the rigors and stress of field operations on the front lines. They first go through an extensive training program together. What might training look like for Christians heading into a serious mission? Before Jesus began his ministry, he fasted in the desert for forty days. His spiritual mission eventually required the ultimate bodily sacrifice. Was his desert regimen of detachment necessary for his readiness? Is something comparable necessary for us? When we think about developing spiritual discipline regarding the physical pleasures of eating, we might return to Augustine’s advice again: Are we ready and willing to do without pleasure, if this is asked of us—and to do so uncomplainingly? Or does our longing for satisfaction and fullness turn us inward? How can we cultivate the interior freedom to seek God and serve others? How can we learn to see beyond what the world offers and keep eternal goods in view? What training would it take to get ourselves to the point of being prepared to carry out our calling?

We should note too that our mission and identity as Christians will include feasting as well as fasting. God created us for celebration and delight—including our enjoyment of food. A particular Marine I knew was deployed overseas during the official birthday of the Marine Corps. He sent back a picture of himself and his friends next to an enormous birthday cake that had “Happy Birthday, US Marine Corps” written across it in brightly colored frosting. They celebrated and feasted that day, despite 130-degree temperatures, grueling hours, the dangers of battle, and a spartan life in dusty canvas tents. Effective service in his mission required a regular reminder of who he was and what he stood for. That reminder came in the form of a celebration—the enjoyment of a specially prepared food.

As Christians, we have a similar identity marker in the form of the eucharistic feast, the celebration of the Lord’s Supper. Our eating and drinking at that meal give us a living picture of Jesus’s sacrifice and anticipate the wedding banquet of the Lamb. To take a seat at his table is to remember who we are and envision what we will be as members of his body. His miracles—producing the best wine at Cana’s wedding feast and abundant bread for multitudes on a mountainside—invite us to eat and drink with him as ways of learning who he is: the bridegroom and Bread of Life. We learn so much about God’s identity and ours through food. He invites us to celebrate and feast with alleluias and thanksgiving, and he feeds us accordingly. Perhaps the old saying is true then: food is love.

As the analogy of military discipline and identity illustrates, food and drink support far greater goods and serve far greater goals than mere bodily preservation (as good as that is). In their fully human form they have social and symbolic value as well. By keeping our desires for their pleasures well-ordered, we are also keeping our relationships to God and other people in order. Our eating creates social bonds, communicates love for each other, connects us to sources of provision and security, and calls for celebration. We mark life’s most important moments with foods—from a nursing mother’s bond with her child to a wedding or birthday cake, from family holiday traditions and shared cups of coffee with friends to church potlucks and warm suppers brought after a funeral. Eating nourishes us, not just physically but also emotionally and spiritually. For that reason, we can appreciate the value of virtue (and the destructive power of vice) in this area of our moral lives. Against gluttony’s temptations to self-centeredness and self-indulgence, virtue helps us affirm both the goodness of pleasure and the need to temper and train our desire for it. That point in turn helps us understand why both fasting and feasting are characteristic parts of the Christian life.

Gluttony’s Remedy: Fasting

If we suspect that eating for excessive pleasure is an area of our lives that needs moral scrutiny, we might try Augustine’s test as an initial exercise in self-examination. How hard would we find it to give up something for, say, a month, and to do so without complaint? Whether we practice them regularly or occasionally, disciplines of detachment reliably reveal where our excessive attachments, selfish preoccupations, idols of identity, and disordered loves lie. As Richard Foster remarks, “Fasting reveals the things that control us.”30

My students and I have tried giving up sugary foods, snacking between meals, caffeinated beverages, alcohol, and even lunch. Some of us found it exceedingly difficult to do without, even though—as centuries of monastic practice show us—none of these foods or meals were even necessary for health. The difficulty of detachment spoke volumes about how dependent we had become on certain pleasures associated with eating and drinking, without even realizing it. Our formation in pleasure-seeking had worn deep grooves of expectation about having our own cravings met, and immediately so.

Importantly, my students and I tried these disciplines together. As with military training or team sports, we find encouragement to persevere in rigorous exercises when we undertake them as a community of practice. Scot McKnight notes that the stationary (i.e., weekly appointed) fasts of the church took their name from the Latin statio, a term for a military cohort.31 As the body of Christ, the church also functions corporately: Paul calls it an organic unity of many members with a common mission. In our fasting and feasting, we enact practices of contrition and celebration as a common project, not simply as a matter of personal choice. Traditionally, the church appointed weekly and yearly fasts that were for everyone, not just for the super-saintly few. Moreover, everyone fasted on the same days (Wednesday and Friday) during the same seasons of the year (Advent and Lent) in preparation for the great feasts at Christmas and Easter. As a corporate body, we train together to be spiritually fit and ready.

Why do we need bodily practice, and bodily abstinence, for spiritual fitness and a spiritual mission? Dallas Willard answers this way:

Very little of our being lies under the direction of our conscious minds and very little of our action runs from our thoughts and consciously chosen intentions. Our mind on its own is an extremely feeble instrument, whose power over life we constantly tend to exaggerate. We are incarnate beings in our very nature, and we live from our bodies. If we are to be transformed, the body must be transformed, and this is not accomplished by talking to it.

The training that leads to doing what we hear from Jesus must therefore involve, first the purposeful disruption of our “automatic” thoughts, feelings, and actions by doing different things with our body. And then, through various intentional practices, we place the body before God . . . in such a way that our whole self is retrained away from the old kingdoms around and within us and into “the kingdom of the Son and his love” (Col. 1:13).32

Fasting as a spiritual discipline accomplishes at least two things. By giving up certain foods for a time, and by not eating to satiety, we learn to let go of pleasure as an idol we get to control and to receive it instead as a gift. Our preoccupying thoughts will shift, over time, to be freer from bodily needs,33 and we will accustom ourselves to appreciate and be content with simple foods. Who will appreciate a simple piece of cheese more—someone who eats several Big Macs every day or someone who has just undergone a Lenten fast, abstaining from meat and dairy for several weeks? We should not misunderstand fasting as a practice that devalues eating and food or regards it as evil. Nothing could be further from the truth. Only someone who has experienced gnawing hunger after a grueling hike up a mountain can say, as a friend of mine once did, “There’s nothing better than a peanut butter and jelly sandwich at ten thousand feet.” Fasting heightens our appreciation for material goods, while also keeping this appreciation in its place, with room for the enjoyment of both simple bodily pleasures and spiritual goods. Orthodox theologian Kallistos Ware wisely notes, “It would be misleading to speak only of this element of weariness and hunger. Abstinence leads, not merely to this, but also to a sense of lightness, wakefulness, freedom, and joy. . . . While involving self-denial, fasting does not seek to do violence to the body but rather to restore it to health and equilibrium. Most of us in the Western world habitually eat more than we need.”34 Cassian agrees. Whatever regimen of fasting we undertake—and he shows remarkable flexibility about this, depending on differences in bodily strength—the underlying principle is to eat without seeking satisfaction or satiety: “Integrity of mind,” he writes, “is closely connected with an empty stomach.”35

This brings us to fasting’s second effect, which is that it increases our appetite for spiritual goods and makes us keenly aware of our dependence on God. Ware explains:

The primary aim of fasting is to make us conscious of our dependence on God. If practiced seriously, the Lenten abstinence from food . . . involves a considerable measure of real hunger, and also a feeling of tiredness and physical exhaustion. The purpose of this is to lead us in turn to a sense of inward brokenness and contrition; to bring us, that is, to the point where we appreciate the full force of Christ’s statement, “Without Me you can do nothing” (John 15:5).

If we always take our fill of food and drink, we easily grow confident in our own abilities, acquiring a false sense of autonomy and self-sufficiency. The observance of a physical fast undermines this sinful complacency.36

Gluttony, like the other capital vices, grows out of pride. How do a heady sin like pride and a visceral vice like gluttony fit together? So far, we have described gluttony as the excessive desire for the pleasure of eating and drinking. Why do we find gluttony so appealing? When a gluttonous habit shapes our delights and longings, excessive desire marks our need to fill ourselves and to provide for our own happiness and pleasure. In gluttony, we not only center our lives on pleasure, but we also prefer to supply that pleasure by ourselves, for ourselves. Gluttons want to define happiness for themselves and keep its attainment under their own control.37 Rather than accepting food as a gift from God and looking to God to fill our spiritual hungers as well as our bodily ones, we take on God’s responsibility to meet our needs and wants. When the gluttonous feel need or emptiness, they do not want to have to depend on God or wait on God to fill it. We prefer vending-machine Christianity. The pleasure of food is not only readily available (multiple times a day, for many Americans), but it is something we can use to quell our own feelings of need and longing. With food, we can comfort ourselves, fill ourselves, provide pleasure for ourselves—if only physically, and if only for a short while. The glutton’s pursuit of fulfillment depends on what he can do, not on what God will give him.

When we equate hedonism with happiness, gluttony escalates to count as a capital vice. We easily mistake pleasure for happiness—we seek it for its own sake, and not for the sake of anything else, and it seems to deliver fulfillment-like satisfaction. Like Adam and Eve, however, we are not simply making an innocent mistake. The habitual and addictive quality of our pleasure-seeking reveals our prideful quest to ensure that we can make ourselves happy and full with whatever delightful and delicious morsel hangs on a tree or sits on our plates. With every meal, every day, we practice keeping happiness firmly in our own hands (and mouths and bellies). The fasting of the desert fathers, by contrast, was an attempt not only to pray but also to live the words “Give us this day our daily bread.” Dallas Willard goes even further: “Fasting confirms our utter dependence on God,” combating pride, embodying trust, and teaching us to “feast on him.”38

When we seek our own surfeit as gluttons, we make serving ourselves the focus of our own attention, because we make our own (nonshareable) pleasure the most important value. The way we use food to comfort ourselves, and its symbolic value as a cue for fullness and provision, however, further signals that more than simple self-indulgence is at work in gluttony. The gluttonous seem to want to defy the truth of Christ’s remark that human beings do not “live by bread alone” (Matt. 4:4). They do want to live by bread alone, and moreover, bread stripped of its deeper significance—as the eucharistic sacrifice, the body of Christ. The gluttonous approach food with gratification in mind, not gratitude. They treat food as a tool to sate themselves, rather than receiving it as a good gift to be enjoyed, celebrated, and shared. Think of our gluttonous approach as the antithesis of Christ’s example at the Last Supper—he gave thanks for the bread and blessed it, then passed it to all to eat in communion.

The regular practice of Christian fasting embodies our yearning not for satisfaction in the present life but for full communion with God that is yet to come. Those waiting in hope for the bridegroom to arrive practice fasting as a “necessary preparation” to receive him with unhindered joy.39 Our feasting, in a parallel way, gives us a foretaste of that delight. In each practice, our bodies enact a spiritual script.

Ironically, the pursuit of happiness in material goods and the pleasures they afford, as well as the attempt to provide them for ourselves in the form of pleasure, can never fill or fulfill us, even when we stuff ourselves full. Honoring our full nature as human beings challenges us to rethink “the role the body plays in our spirituality.”40 We need to affirm the goodness of bodily pleasure as a gift, even as we incarnate our conviction that no amount of that gift can adequately satisfy our heart’s desire for loving union with God. Our bodies are important to God. Our bodily needs and longings for bread are a living parable, pointing us—in dependence, humility, and joy—to our need for God, the Bread of Life. No wonder even the overstuffed glutton remains spiritually empty, always hungry for more.

FURTHER REFLECTION

There are many ways to be gluttonous. Which ones are most problematic for you? What would be the hardest food or drink (or meal) to give up and why? Why are you eating?

How is fasting different from dieting? How is feasting different from gluttony?

With pride in mind, reflect on these words, quoted above, from Ware: “While involving self-denial, fasting does not seek to do violence to the body but rather to restore it to health and equilibrium. Most of us in the Western world habitually eat more than we need. . . . The primary aim of fasting is to make us conscious of our dependence on God. . . . If we always take our fill of food and drink, we easily grow confident in our own abilities, acquiring a false sense of autonomy and self-sufficiency.”

FURTHER READING

Scot McKnight, Fasting, ed. Phyllis Tickle, Ancient Practices Series (Nashville: Nelson, 2009).

Robert C. Roberts, “Temperance,” in Virtues and Their Vices, ed. Kevin Timpe and Craig Boyd (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014), 93–111.

c11D

9 
Lust

Sexuality Stripped Down

Sex is sinful to the degree that, instead of drawing you closer to other human beings in their humanness, it unites bodies but leaves the lives inside them hungrier and more alone than before.

—Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking

Sex: Is it our nemesis, the greatest and most shameful of all sins? Why are we then tempted to treat it as the key to happiness, the ultimate fulfillment of desire? Does it picture our relationship with God—holy, intimate, and beautiful—or does it merely offer a casual romp for recreation? If Scripture says sex and marriage are good, why does most Christian radio play only platonic love songs crooned to God, not to flesh-and-blood people whom we rightly sexually desire? On the other hand, if spring break sexual free-for-alls and hook-ups at parties provide all the excitement we need, why do secular rock songs regularly extol yearnings for a “hold me in your arms forever” view of sex linked to promises of lifelong love? Does sex mean everything or nothing? Is it sacred or sinful or something in between? Is it for procreation, personal intimacy, or physical pleasure? Why is it such a taboo topic to discuss? Why is it so ubiquitous that we see it on broadcasts and billboards everywhere? Needless to say, both the culture and the church send many mixed messages about sex—as if we needed confusion on top of the difficulty of handling sexual desire itself!

Like many cultural voices, William Gass calls lust merely “the sexual impulse dialed up.” What’s the harm in it? It merely makes one “alert and on the search, . . . encouragingly alive, paying attention to one’s friends and companions because they may relieve the itch.” As a further point in its favor, “satisfied lust may mean that two people are happy.” The real problem, he argues, lies with those who would squelch our natural desire for pleasure, like the religious prudes and the pleasure haters who taint it with guilt-ridden “thou shalt nots.”1 But is there no other way to order sexual desire than to restrict our unadulterated access to pleasure?2

Philosopher and spiritual writer Dallas Willard counters with a more complicated view: “Intimacy is a spiritual hunger of the human soul, and we cannot escape it. This has always been true and remains true today. We now keep hammering the sex button in the hope that a little intimacy might finally dribble out.”3 Gass and Willard represent two wildly opposing views about human sexuality. We rightly wonder if there is any black and white here, or only Fifty Shades of Grey.

Inside the church, no one can miss the havoc that unbounded sexual desire wreaks: pastors who admit to viewing porn, priests who sexually abuse children and cover it up for decades, and men exposed in the #MeToo movement who sexually harass female coworkers in ministry, to name just a few examples. Adultery and abortions happen in the Christian community at rates that are similar to those in the rest of North American culture. At the same time, the behavior and attitudes tolerated by corporations and sports teams or in entertainment industries and political circles show that disordered sexual desire and its damage is also a serious culture problem, not just a church problem. From prudes to politicians, and from parishioners to working professionals, it’s fair to admit that all of us find handling sexual desire fraught with difficulty. What can be said about the painfully toxic mess we’ve made of sex?

“Grant me chastity and continence, but not yet,” prays the young Augustine in his Confessions.4 Make me holy, he implores God, but please don’t make me give up my favorite sexual indulgences—at least not this weekend. Later in life, when he finally wanted to give up his lustful desires, however, he found he couldn’t. Imprisoned by the “overwhelming force of habit,”5 Augustine’s desire became a destructive force he had no success in exorcising through his own willpower. Following rules like requiring consent might be a useful legal strategy against the dangers of the unrestrained libido, but if we have learned anything from the tradition in this book, we know the transformation of our character must go deeper.

Back to the Beginning

First, as a preliminary note, I should clarify that this chapter will treat lust in its narrower meaning, as a vice concerned with the desire for sexual pleasure.6 “Lust” also often designates excessive desires or strong cravings (e.g., “a lust for power,” echoing Augustine’s libido dominandi). In this general sense, the term “lust” captures the tendency to excess that is shared by most of the vices. We also use “lust” in ways roughly synonymous with general uses of gluttony (“glutton for punishment”) or greed (“greedy for knowledge”) to indicate overindulgence or intensity of desire. Because I am trying to differentiate the vices from each other, I will focus only on lust’s specific form. In so doing, I’m following the earliest desert tradition, which called this vice porneia (Greek) or fornicatio (Latin) and thought of it as sexual temptation, rather than the later and broader term luxuria, which more generally refers to a surfeit or excess.

Before we can define disordered sexual desires, however, we need to backtrack further, to the beginning of the biblical account. Voices that condemn sexual desires and pleasures as evil in themselves, or that condone human sexual intercourse as a necessary evil tainted with shame, do not square with the account of creation in Scripture. God created us as sexual beings; we bear God’s image in our maleness and femaleness, as the poetic parallelism of Genesis 1:27 indicates. God designed human beings with sexual bodies capable of attraction and arousal. Our sexuality—including bodies, hormones, and the tactile desires and pleasures that go with them—counts as a good gift from God. For this reason, Aquinas, whose theology strongly affirms the goodness of creation, thought that sexual intercourse would have been more pleasurable in Eden than after the fall into sin.7 Scripture dedicates an entire book (Song of Songs) to celebrating sexual love between a man and a woman in its various erotic expressions. Marriage (a sexual relationship) between a bride and bridegroom is the most consistent picture God gives us of his relationship of loving communion with his people. Scripture testifies to the beauty and power of the gift of sexuality, the wondrous goodness of our bodies, and the blessings of life and love that flow to his people through human sexuality, not in spite of it. First and foremost, human sexuality and its attendant pleasures deserve our healthy respect and grateful affirmation, not our fearful condemnation or our casual brush-off.

Acknowledging the goodness of human sexuality and its pleasures is a necessary first step because, as with the other vices, we can’t define lust as damaging or disordered pleasure-seeking unless we can identify a well-ordered, delightful form to which it fails to measure up. The right view of this great good will avoid two traps. On the one hand, it will avoid degrading sexual pleasure into meaningless triviality or animal instinct, stripped of any relation to love and humanness. On the other hand, it will avoid elevating it into something so spiritual that any ecstasy involved counts as a quasimystical experience, out of fear, shame, or abhorrence for the actual flesh involved. We should treat our sexual desires and their expression as holistically human—both spiritually significant and earthily embodied.

As with many of the other vices we’ve studied so far, addressing sexuality holistically also means looking beyond behavioral symptoms. Some of my Christian college students operate under the misconception that well-ordered sexuality works like this: Before marriage, you can’t have any intercourse, and you have to squash your sexual urges. In marriage, all the rules fall away and life becomes a sexual free-for-all—as long as it’s with your spouse, of course. You can gratify your sexual desires whenever and however you want. In this view, chastity only matters for those who are actually abstaining in the premarital state or for those who are crazy enough to choose celibacy—although they usually fail to consider this latter option altogether. (It’s unclear whether their lack of consideration should be attributed simply to youthful hormones or to the fact that most Protestant churches, contrary to Scripture, no longer hold this up as a serious option for Christians.)

Like my students, many of us have a woefully narrow view of human sexuality. Few of us understand the virtue of chastity as a lifelong practice that applies to all. Without a wider view, behavioral rules, however correct, make little sense. John Cassian once distinguished two forms of virtuous sexuality, one a matter of bodily behavior and one a matter of the heart. The first could be curtailed in large part by some serious fasting and solitude in the desert—a wasteland known (in the monks’ case) for its lack of visual temptations and available women. However, waiting within lies the second battle. As Cassian observes, even when we renounce exterior things and temptations, we bring interior baggage with us everywhere, even into the desert. In the words of Evagrius, “The demons war with secular [people] more through objects, but with monks they do so especially through thoughts, for [monks] are deprived of objects because of [their] solitude. Further, to the extent that it is easier to sin in thought than in action, so is the warfare in thought more difficult than that which is conducted through objects. For the mind is a thing easily set in motion and difficult to check in its tendency toward unlawful fantasies.”8

We can find plenty of other places to debate the behavioral aspects of sex—that is, which activities should be allowed or forbidden. In this chapter, I will shift the conversation instead to questions of character, their deeper source. Which virtues are needed to direct our sexual desires toward flourishing and to perfect us as fully human sexual beings? How does the vice of lust dim our view of beauty and damage our ability to love? If we follow disordered sexual desires and the picture of happiness they give us over time, what sort of person will we become?

Considerations of sexual integrity and self-possession, as well as faithfulness to what is good, true, and beautiful, can and should move us beyond conversations about abstinence and intercourse toward asking more fruitful questions. If we reframe the conversation in terms of virtue-vice talk, perhaps we can better honor both this wider perspective and the goodness of sexuality. The author of a recent book on teen sexuality remarks with regret that “so much of how we see a young person’s sexuality is defined by all the things that can go wrong.”9 It’s true that when lust misshapes our hearts and minds, it obscures important things. Perhaps it’s time to reclaim the ways that both sexual pleasure and chastity attune us to love, beauty, and communion in ways we cannot now imagine.

“Sex Is Like Nitroglycerin”

Let’s admit it: People both inside and outside the church think Christians make too big a deal of sexual sin. The church obsesses with sex, they complain, and the word from the pulpit is always resoundingly negative. N. T. Wright recounts the joke about Moses carrying the commandments down from Mount Sinai. “‘Good news and bad news,’ he says. ‘The good news is—we’ve got them down from forty to ten. The bad news is—adultery is still in.’”10 From purity culture to porn, why does the church’s message about sex seem to center on shame? The sexual promiscuity of our culture supplies constant fodder for condemnation (though curiously, Christians tend to overlook systemic sexism within the church itself). But, my students wonder, what about judgmentalism itself, or abuses of power, or prejudice—sins that are equally damaging and culturally prevalent? The Bible itself gives more attention to other sins, like greed and idolatry. Why are Christians so focused on this particular hot-button issue?

I think it’s worth admitting at the outset that something of this charge sticks. Christians often treat sexual sin as if it were the culture’s main problem and other sinful desires as if they were less important. Churches also seem defensive about sexual ethics while largely ignoring the spiritual dangers of, say, affluence or power. That may well be a tragic mistake. It is certainly concerning and worth complaining about. Jesus came down hard on the pious posturers and power players of his day, while treating the prostitutes he encountered with compassion and mercy. We might better pursue the kind of character formation that makes us more like him.

Yet we can also respond to these charges against Christians by articulating good reasons to get upset about sexual sin. What is sex and what is it for? That’s not a question often addressed, in the church or in the culture. First, sexual intercourse—even at the physiological level—is one of the most intimately bonding activities two people can engage in, and other sexual desires and activities have this act as their ostensible goal. Scripture describes sexual union as becoming “one flesh” and consistently treats it as the signature act of marriage between bride and bridegroom, husband and wife, as well as a picture of Christ’s union with the church (Eph. 5).11 So the book of nature and the book of Scripture both point to human sexuality’s social and even spiritual significance. Second, human sexuality is bound up with reproduction. As with all animals, the design of human sexual organs seems geared toward procreating new human life, linking sexual activity to family and future generations. (We can surely work around and against the physiological grain here, but that’s just the point—there’s some default functionality here to contend with.) In short, our sexuality, including our sexual desire and pleasure, is implicated in human familial relationships and new human existence—that is, both love and life. With that much at stake, we are rightly wary of lust’s disordering potential. Frederick Buechner advises us to heed the power of our sexuality, good or bad: “Contrary to Mrs. Grundy, sex is not a sin. Contrary to Hugh Hefner, it’s not salvation either. Like nitroglycerin, it can be used either to blow up bridges or heal hearts.”12

As a word of grace, however, we should not forget that lust usually begins as a sin of weakness, not a sin of malice, to put it in Aquinas’s terms. People get carried away by curiosity or caught up in the moment by strong passions. They aren’t planning to hurt others or create scars that last a lifetime. Perhaps they feel desperately lonely and use sexual pleasure as a superficial panacea but quickly find themselves blindsided by the power of the desire they’ve awakened. Our concern here is how those choices accumulate into a current of habits that then sweep out of control. Since sexual desires figure powerfully in human life, it’s understandable that we underestimate their force and hold on us before we feel their full heat. Further, while lust does indeed have major potential for damage, people in its grip also tend to feel shame. They welcome offers of help to escape from it and often readily respond to mercy, while condemnation only further fuels a spiral of self-loathing. Of course, anyone can get hardened over time into casual or cruel lewdness—this explains why we should guard against making a habit out of lustful desire. But for many of us, it feels like an uninvited monster that has taken over our lives. Once we see it for what it is, we want to escape from it as much as anyone does.

The cultural conversation about casual sex needs to more honestly acknowledge the power of human sexual desire (as the advertising industry’s exploitation of it implicitly attests). The life-altering forces in our bodies and hearts bespeak something with more than superficial or recreational significance. The church’s conversation, however, should start with the goodness of sex and virtuous sexual desire—its love- and life-giving power—not just its perversions or prohibitions. The right question for both is this: How should our sexual desires serve our full humanness? With proper use and enjoyment, our sexuality, sexual desires, and their fulfillment serve, strengthen, and signify our human capacity to give and receive love. An approach to lust as a vice will therefore ask, How do unruly sexual desires deform our character, our perception, and our emotions? How does our habitual attachment to pleasure enhance or erode our relationship with God? How does it build up or break down human relationships?

Thinking about lust as a vice turns our attention from symptoms to deeper sources. Lust need not be acted out to count as disordered desire. In the rest of the chapter, let’s look at the ways lust is a problem with the heart above your belt before it is a problem with the heat below it.

Defining the Disorder

Sexual desire and pleasure are an integral part of the gift of good sexual activity.13 The trouble comes with lust’s reductive impulses. Lust strips sexual pleasure-seeking down to individual gratification, apart from a love relationship to a person. Like gluttony, lust narrows the only end we have in view to our own personal sensory stimulation. Without a holistic view of sexuality and its purposes, lustful pleasure downgrades all the goodness of sex to the lowest denominator—its physical dimension.

The expression of fully human sexuality has a rich interpersonal and social dimension that brings us into connection and relationship with others. Lust deforms sexual desire by cutting us off from this potential, fed by the pretense that sexual pleasure is an individual good. The lustful seek self-gratification—their own pleasure—as a dominant and sometimes even exclusive end. This feature of lust more than any other puts it in opposition to well-ordered sexual enjoyment. Lust severs sexual pleasure-seeking from loving another person; lust involves my taking and getting, rather than mutual self-giving. The immediacy of its physical demands starkly contrasts with long-term personal bonds: once sated, lust turns and walks away. When we lust we want nothing to do with sharing love or giving life, if the thought even occurs to us. Lust says, Sexual pleasure is my pleasure.

This explains why lust characteristically reduces the fullness of sexuality to something less. Paul Ricoeur says, “Everything that makes the sexual encounter easy simultaneously speeds its collapse into insignificance.”14 Perhaps the hardest thing to appreciate until we have experienced it is the richly human, deeply personal character of sexual expression. If we dismiss our sexuality’s personal, emotional, and social meaning, as lust demands, nothing remains but the version of sex found in Cosmopolitan magazine, which offers tips and techniques on how to make things “hotter” in bed. Cosmo, Maxim, and the like have nothing to say about what sexual desire and its expression look like bathed in love’s familiarity, warmth, vulnerability, and intimacy. Teenage boys joke about the paper-thin plot of porn videos, implicitly noting that the sex depicted in them has no real story to it; for all the falsely scripted bodily motions, all human history has been stripped away. Such depictions of sex reduce it to a performance (bodies plus behavior) that predictably yields a product (pleasure), procurable on demand without respect for particular persons or their full personhood. Such “sex without humanness,” to borrow Buechner’s phrase, is cold, clinical, and superficial. Lustful sex makes the other person instrumental to my acquisition of pleasure. As Josef Pieper puts it, lust wants an impersonal “it,” while proper desire turns us, with delight, to a unique, beloved person.15

A pastor once illustrated the point this way:

Lust dehumanizes the other. In fact lust needs to dehumanize the other. Lust doesn’t work when the other person is fully human. That’s why exotic dancers always have fake stage names. You would never have a dancer use her real name. Why not? Because that gets in the way of objectification that lust needs. A man leering at an exotic dancer doesn’t want to know her real name. A great way to empty out these clubs would be to stand up before a dancer was about to come on and say, “This is Sultry Susan, but her real name is Mary Wallinski. She has four brothers and sisters. Her parents divorced when she was 5. Her mother is an alcoholic. She has been married twice; her last husband beat her. She has two kids and is struggling to get by. She likes dogs and would love to be a dental hygienist someday.” That would empty out the room. An introduction like that would short circuit the lust because it would put intimacy and humanity back into the picture. Lust doesn’t want the full humanity of the person with her needs and her vulnerabilities. Lust wants low lights, a haze of alcohol and lots of lies.16

We count lust a vice, then, because it does not honor the fullness of our sexuality as whole persons. It truncates the communion and the community for which sex was made. In fact, lustful pleasure-seeking alienates people from each other just when they are supposed to be drawn together. Lust can imitate acts of intimacy, but in truth, it is their antithesis.

Human beings find it difficult to be lustful without feeling that loss at some level. That emptiness, along with the strength of desire, drives lust toward compulsive excess. As with other addictions to pleasurable highs, if you are successful in numbing yourself to the goods involved, you will also have been successful in becoming less fully human. All entrenched patterns of vice lead us on paths of self-damage and self-destruction. Lust is no exception. No wonder it leaves us feeling alone and unfulfilled.

Filling and Fulfilling Myself

The dynamics of lust’s search for pleasure parallel those operating in its close cousin, gluttony. The excessiveness of these two vices reduces something designed for more than pleasure to mere pleasure. Buechner also notes the similarity: “At its roots the hunger to know someone sexually is the hunger to know and be known by that person humanly. Food without nourishment doesn’t fill the bill for long, and neither does sex without humanness.”17 Just as the glutton sees food only as a useful means for filling herself with comfort and satisfaction, so the lustful person sees her sexuality only in terms of its usefulness in providing pleasure for herself.18

We should not be surprised to find that lust imitates gluttony in this respect, since both are vices dealing with physical pleasures of touch. The glutton, given her disordered desires for pleasure in eating, grows less and less able to appreciate and be satisfied with the pleasure of a simple meal of ordinary quantity and quality. She needs more and better to stimulate and satisfy. And then more and better yet, for habitual indulgence only strengthens the desire and its demands for satisfaction.19 Her mistake? Trying to satisfy an infinite spiritual hunger by filling her stomach with food. Such self-fulfillment certainly seems easier at first. But her desire for eternal life and perfect fulfillment can never be quenched with the temporary pleasure of eating, even if indulgence soothes her physical cravings and seems to quell her emptiness for now. Lust’s escalation is no different.20 Despite their reputation to the contrary, virtues like temperance and chastity train and direct desire, teaching us how to celebrate and delight in the fullness of pleasure, rather than merely dampening it or forbidding it.21 As deceptive as the false reputations of these virtues might be, excess—not self-regulation—counts as the real pleasure-killer. Genuinely appreciating physical goods requires that we not use them to try to serve or satiate our spiritual needs.

Lust’s definition refers to physical pleasure that requires embodiment. The key to understanding lust as a vice, however, is to see that what we do physically is inextricably linked to spiritual needs and spiritual effects. As Buechner puts it, “Adultery, promiscuity either heterosexual or homosexual, masturbation—one appealing view is that anything goes as long as no one gets hurt. The trouble is that human beings are so hopelessly psychosomatic in composition that whatever happens to the soma [body] happens also to the psyche [soul] and vice versa.”22

Why does lust leave human beings both empty and driven to excess in their search for sensual satisfaction? Because it tries to substitute something less for something more. As beings with a spiritual as well as a physical dimension, we need something more than bodily satisfaction to fulfill us. No temporary physical fix or fleeting passion is enough. Lust—as a habitual vice—has an insatiable quality to it that testifies to this fact about us.

The Greek philosopher Plato once told a myth about eros (sexual desire) in the voice of a comic poet named Aristophanes.23 According to the whimsical story he spins, the gods originally created human beings as spherical creatures with four arms and four legs and two heads. As punishment for trying to usurp the gods’ power, the gods sliced them in half “like a flatfish.” In our current condition, then, each human being languishes as only half of his or her original whole. Eros, says Aristophanes, names our yearning to be reunited with our other half; our sexual urges express our desire for completeness.24 Nowadays, the longing this ancient story describes still drives us. Justin Timberlake offers us only one of many recent soundtracks for it, describing his desire for the woman who reflects him like a mirror: “I don’t want to lose you now / I’m looking right at the other half of me.”25

Even if sexual union holds our best hope for achieving this reunion or lost wholeness for now, however, Aristophanes continues, it is imperfect and transitory. “No one would think that [what lovers really want from each other] is the intimacy of sex—that mere sex is the reason each lover takes so great and deep a joy in being with the other. It’s obvious that the soul of every lover longs for something else; his soul cannot say what it is, but like an oracle it has a sense of what it wants, and like an oracle it lies hidden behind a riddle.”26 Such reunions express our yearning to reclaim our original “wholeness” or oneness, he argues, but no amount of physical intercourse or pleasure will fill that need. When we try to make “mere sex” and its sensual pleasure do all the work of human fulfillment, we are clinging to a strategy destined to fail. Trying to get sexual pleasure to satisfy our fundamental longing for human happiness holds out only a surefire recipe for disappointment. Then why do we keep trying it, deluding ourselves that it will be enough? Why are we perennially lured by lustful promises and stratagems?

Our pursuit of the vices takes our attachments to good things and turns them to excess, distorting both us and the objects of our desire. Wrath arises from ostensible concerns for justice and honor, greed regards sufficient possessions, gluttony looks for happiness in the food and drink that sustains life, vainglory seeks the affirmation and appreciation of others. Vice happens when we try to make these good things fill gaps and needs in our hearts that only God can fill, and when we define happiness in terms of them, rather than appreciating and receiving them as (finite) gifts from God.

Here again with lust, we uncover the familiar connection of the capital vices with pride. The temptation not to trust God’s will and way to our good was there in Eden, and it remains a great temptation now. Lust counts merely as another habitual version of trying to engineer happiness for myself, by myself. In lust, I decide to make my own pleasure the goal, and then I decide where to get it, and when, and how. My life revolves around my desires, wants, and “needs,” which I satisfy on demand and on my own terms. I make everything and everyone else an instrument serving that end. I disown my need for God’s love and the love of others, and I will not wait to receive it as a gift. I prefer to find my own delight, to meet my own desire for satisfaction, to fill myself. Unlike someone who risks depending on the love of another and vulnerably gives himself to another, the lustful person chooses to be autonomous and in control, providing his good for himself. As with avarice, taking for ourselves seems like a safer strategy than remaining open to accepting what we need and long for from another’s hand or heart. Surrender, vulnerability, intimacy, and dependence are the hard road we resist taking at all costs. Insisting on independence and creating a false form of happiness for ourselves signal lust’s prideful roots. Lust plays the same tired old game as the rest of the vices. As with all of them, winning the game means we lose.

Because human beings find true fulfillment in love for God and for each other, sexual expressions of love require real persons. They demand a fully human encounter, not simply a useful or pleasurable exchange. They require the freedom to give ourselves to each other, and the willingness to graciously welcome another person in. No one would deny the risks involved: we have witnessed manifold failures all around us, often in our own families. The choice to love is an opportunity to appreciate and value a flawed human person for his or her own sake, not just for what that person can do for us or the pleasure they promise to provide. Yet the hallmark of this real and raw love—the freedom of giving of ourselves to each other—stands excluded from lust’s instrumentalizing and manipulative view. To strip human sexuality of its link to love can make access to sexual pleasure safer and easier, and ostensibly and superficially under our control, perhaps, but the safety we seek in prideful self-provision also walls us off from what we really need.

The Pleasure Paradox

When we misuse something habitually, we tend to lose our ability to appreciate its true goodness. As with gluttony, the more single-mindedly we pursue something for the pleasure we can get from it, the less likely we are to find our desire for pleasure satisfied. Sexual self-gratification gradually loses its flavor. What once felt intoxicating eventually becomes dull and boring. Pornography use classically illustrates this dynamic, as the organization Fight the New Drug amply documents.27 They show, if we didn’t already know, that porn use (note the consumerist way we talk about this activity) has an incredible escalation rate. Habitual viewers quickly increase their frequency of use to the point where it disrupts and dominates their lives. Meanwhile, the level of perversity and novelty required to pique their interest also quickly spins beyond the range of what would shock even a more jaded adult. Like a drug dealer, the industry carefully designs the experience and exposure to maximize this progressive dynamic. Even ordinary viewers soon find themselves aroused only by ugly deviance of all stripes: sadomasochistic violence and rape, child porn, and more. In the words of one man, “As a struggling porn addict myself, I know what the producer [of pornographic films] said about porn getting more and more brutal on the women is true, and it will only get worse. [There’s] something about human nature that gets desensitized to the ordinary.”28 Why doesn’t indulging in lustful pleasure satisfy us? Why is truly fulfilling pleasure such an elusive goal for the lustful person?

As the ancient Greeks noted, we easily confuse pleasure with human fulfillment, because, like happiness, we seek pleasure for its own sake (or, as philosophers say, “as an end in itself”). The paradox of pleasure, however, as they also noted, is that you can’t get it by seeking it directly. Aristotle said that we experience pleasure as a sort of side effect of specific activities done in a particular way; certain activities give rise to corresponding pleasures as their characteristic fruit. We might mistake the pleasure for an independently graspable item, but in truth we cannot experience it without the correlative activity. Pleasures turn out to be as unique as the signature activities they accompany. The pleasure of sitting in the sunshine, or playing soccer, is not the same thing as the pleasure of reading a good book. The pleasure of reading a gripping biography like Unbroken is not the same as the pleasure of reading a comic book like Calvin and Hobbes. The pleasure of reading to myself is not the same as the pleasure of reading to my children.29

Sexual pleasure is no different. This explains why lust requires escalation and novelty, while a happily married person can still enjoy conventional sex decades into a marriage to the same spouse, often more so as time progresses. Sexual pleasure—both its quality and its ability to satisfy—depends on the type of activity from which you get it. The lustful person gets the shallow version, the physical rush that feels great for a moment but also cannot satisfy for more than a moment. Studies consistently show greater sexual satisfaction (in quality and quantity) among those in faithful, monogamous marriages than among those whose sex lives tend toward the promiscuous side of things. Why? Because in such marriages the sexual pleasure is the fruit of love that grows greater with time and experience. That sort of pleasure is simply unavailable to those who are in it only for the physical pleasure, and only for their own pleasure. In her poem “To a Long Loved Love,” Madeleine L’Engle writes,

We who have seen the new moon grow old together

Who have seen winter rime the fields and stones

As though it would claim earth and water forever

We who have known the touch of flesh and the shape of bones

Know the old moon stretching its shadows across a whitened field

More beautiful than spring with all its spate of blooms

What passions knowledge of tried flesh still yields,

What joy and comfort these familiar rooms.

In the moonless, lampless dark now of this bed

My body knows each line and curve of yours;

My fingers know the shape of limb and head:

As pure as mathematics ecstasy endures.30

In this case, with familiarity comes not contempt and boredom but a deepening of trust and intimacy—the very context in which sexual pleasure comes into full bloom. “Do not stir up or awaken love until it is ready,” counsels the author of Song of Songs (8:4). Such countercultural advice comes from those who want the heights of sexual pleasure to be possible for us—as the rest of this biblical book makes clear—not from those who seek to repress it. As these examples illustrate, fulfilling pleasure without full human intimacy is lust’s favorite false promise. Like the other vices, lust gives us an imitation of happiness, a substitute for the real thing. Satisfying sexual enjoyment finds its home in loving relationships with people who delight in us for who we really are. Whether you are single for a season, married, or celibate for life, having rightly ordered desire means honoring that truth in all you do with your mind, heart, and body.31

Lust’s Body Count

One of the most common assumptions about lust is that it doesn’t hurt anyone. Aquinas, in the thirteenth century, anticipates this “no-injury” objection. Fornication (the tradition’s term for sexual intercourse outside of marriage) involves two willing adults. Nobody is injured; therefore, fornication doesn’t count as sinful.32 In today’s culture, the reasoning goes something like “no harm, no foul.” As long as everyone involved gives their consent, why wouldn’t any expression of sexual desire be licit?33 Satisfying desire is pleasurable and fun, and what’s wrong with that?

In some cases more than others, we more readily recognize the injuries from lust. In the story of David and Bathsheba (2 Sam. 11–12), the king’s lust racks up quite a body count before it’s all over. We painfully witness as David’s selfish satisfaction of his sexual desires first costs Uriah his life, then costs Bathsheba the death of her husband and child, and finally costs David a painful rupture in his relationship with God (Ps. 51) and the loss of a son. But the damage does not just stop with those directly involved. Uriah is betrayed to the death by the king he has served faithfully, and David’s general, Joab, becomes complicit in that betrayal. So David’s army and, after a visit from the prophet Nathan, his palace servants and his people see their king willing to sacrifice his obedient subjects to indulge his own selfish desires. (This also includes Bathsheba, who presumably could have refused the king’s advances only on pain of death.) David’s lust breaks trust, undercuts loyalties, and damages relationships (personal and political) at all levels.

Adultery obviously causes harm, but even within an otherwise faithful marriage lust can inflict deep wounds. It’s notable that Aquinas (who overemphasizes the procreative purpose of sex almost to the point of forgetting about its potential for intimacy) explicitly warns husbands not to use their wives indecently for their own sexual pleasure. This is “counter to the good of marriage,” he says—even to the point of being a worse offense than adultery—because it “breaks faith” between husband and wife.34 She will know that he is using and disrespecting her, and that feels like betrayal too.

Even if lust does not directly burn us, its smoke damage can still wreak destruction far and wide. A neighborhood feels threatened when a sex offender moves in; advertising everywhere exposes young children to cringe-worthy explicit sexual content; teens having sex find themselves more depressed, while their choices create a culture of pressure for others; sexual leering and innuendo create hostile public spaces and uncomfortable workplaces; hooking up normalizes drunken encounters with strangers and increases the incidence of disease; we wield an ugly word for sex (the f-bomb) to express utter contempt; cohabiting young adults bring baggage into later relationships; and sexual abuse and affairs rip families, churches, and communities apart. Recent statistics show that at least 80 percent of teens age fifteen to seventeen have had multiple exposures to hard-core internet pornography. Even if we stop looking, everyone knows the power of these images to remain imprinted on the mind. (Naomi Wolf once described the male perspective of the college sex scene this way: “Real naked women are just bad porn.”)35 How do these experiences contaminate the atmosphere in a coed classroom, on a date, in an office setting, or in a marriage? As a community, we often live with lust’s collateral damage for the long term.

The damage may also be less sensational and more subtle. We underestimate the impact of our constant cultural formation to our own peril. Persistent lustful habits make our society more crass and crude, and the world less beautiful. Lust detracts from good relationships, in part because our imaginations and narratives about sexuality have been deformed. Lustful attitudes permeate the way we think and speak about the opposite sex. Check out the number of sexual terms in a slang dictionary and note the strikingly large percentage that are derogatory and violent. Is it reasonable to think that we can safely sequester or self-censor our deepest attitudes from our daily speech and behavior? The portrayal of masculine and feminine “ideal” bodies in video games and our regular experiences of misogyny and sexual violence as entertainment in music and movies—even if it does not rise to the level of the excesses of rap lyrics or characters in the Game of Thrones—implicitly shape our assumptions of what we can and should expect sexually from both men and women. When sexual malformation pollutes the air we breathe, lust is no longer a private, personal problem.

Robert Solomon pokes fun at the religious prudes who condemn the harmless fun of “one too many peeks at a naughty Playboy pictorial,”36 but his comments betray an embarrassing (or perhaps willful) ignorance. It’s almost impossible nowadays not to have read the statistics on pornography use and its compulsive power, or not to have recognized in the testimony of addicts their self-loathing and the brokenness they caused in their families,37 never mind the exploitative gender dynamics of the billion-dollar sex (and sex trafficking) industry and those whose lives are decimated by its abuses. Willard calls this out: such practices always involve “some element of contempt or even disgust. Those presented in it are obviously being used, hence are even regarded by the viewer as deserving disgust or even pain. There is no question of an appropriate human relation with them.”38

Even when lust doesn’t do that type or level of damage, it does not stay hidden. In his exposition on Jesus’s words about lust in the Sermon on the Mount, Willard argues that although lust begins in the heart and mind, it quickly pervades the whole person and his or her social relationships.

When one is inhabited by fantasizing visual lusting, it, like anger and contempt, makes its presence known. It is detectable in one’s “body language” and expressions [including the language one uses to talk about sex and members of the other sex]. As a result, it has pervasive effects on everyone in the situation, even though it is not “acted out.” Indeed, being what it is, a condition of the embodied social self [emphasis added], it is always acted out to some degree and simply cannot be kept a private reality. “The look” is a public act with public effects that restructure the entire framework of personal relations where it occurs.

The person subjected to the fantasy, as well as others alongside, is deeply affected by such lusting. . . . The person subjected to it and everyone else nearby must “deal with it,” often by constant planning and managing. Sexual harassment as we know it would simply disappear under Jesus’ ethic of sexuality.39

A society that has normalized the habitual indulgence of self-serving sexual pleasure in general hampers healthy relationships with friends, coworkers, and (future) spouses. It makes a celibate life or season of abstinence so hard that we now consider such commitments impossible to ask of people. And that’s before we consider lust’s spiritual effects on our ability to recognize and receive the love of God.

Alan Paton tells a story about the corrosive power of lust in his book Too Late the Phalarope. Pieter van Vlaanderen, a police officer in South Africa, reflects remorsefully on his sexual tryst with a young woman late at night in a vacant lot outside of town:

And how long he stayed there he could not remember, but at last he rose and came out of the vacant ground. And his body and clothes stank with the smell of the weeds, and the stinking was a symbol of his corruption. . . . And he thought again of his children with special agony, for what kind of man would destroy what he had created, and hurt what he had loved? . . . In those last twelve hours the whole world had changed, because of one insensate act. And what madness makes a man pursue something so unspeakable, deaf to the cries of wife and children and mother and friends and blind to their danger, to grasp one unspeakable pleasure that brought no joy, ten thousand of which pleasures were not worth one of the hairs on his children’s heads? Such desire could not surely be a desire of the flesh, but some mad desire of a sick and twisted soul. And why should I have this desire? he asked himself. Where did it come from? And how did one cure it? But he had no answers to these questions. . . .

And his terrible knowledge of himself lay in him darkly and heavily, and took away his laughter, and the laughter of his wife, so that the children were the only creatures that laughed in that house. He went to work darkly and heavily, and came back darkly and heavily, and played with the children because that was his habit, but his wife could hear and see that it was not the same.40

As Paton’s story shows, lust damages the person who lusts too. Such damage, ranging from jadedness to despair, includes depression, loneliness, shame, callousness, blindness to beauty, and self-loathing. Lust can certainly deliver on instant pleasure. Why else would anyone go back for more? But it also delivers on disrespect—of ourselves and others. Buechner comments: “Who is to say who gets hurt and who doesn’t get hurt, and how? Maybe the injuries are all internal. Maybe it will be years before the X-rays show up anything. Maybe the only person who gets hurt is you.”41

Body and Soul

Sometimes the early Christians’ asceticism and celibacy seem to imply a rejection of the body.42 Evagrius recommends that young monks trying to avoid lust flee from encounters with women.43 Likewise, he warns, “The sight of a woman is a poisoned arrow; it wounds the soul and injects the poison, and for as long a time as it stays there it causes an ever greater festering.”44 We might be tempted—against their own stated views elsewhere—to think that these early Christians label women as the cause of lust, rather than the human heart. In reply, the desert mother Amma Theodora says, “Give the body discipline, and you will see that the body is for the One who made it.”45 But even when the tradition does need tempering, too harsh a reading often oversimplifies and exaggerates earlier views. For one thing, these Christian thinkers were counseling those who had vowed perpetual sexual abstinence. Their audience consisted of Christians who had withdrawn from all worldly affairs to the desert or monastery to pursue single-minded devotion to God. You and I might also be called to hiddenness, humility, and radical obedience, but perhaps not to that form of radical withdrawal. Hence, we need to translate their insights and advice for our time and circumstances. Despite the differences between their ascetic context and our own, though, in many ways these early Christians took the unity of body and soul more seriously than we do. They insisted that what we do with our bodies affects our spiritual lives, as the apostle Paul affirms (1 Cor. 6:13–20). The famous modern philosopher Descartes once said, “I am really distinct from my body and can live without it.”46 By contrast, taking the habit of lust seriously means treating the body as an integral part of who we are as human beings.

Cassian therefore describes the virtue of chastity as something to be cultivated on the inside as well as the outside. His call for a “chastity of body and soul” means that, “first of all, the hidden places of our heart must be very carefully purified. For what those others wish to acquire in terms of purity of body, we must ourselves possess in the depths of our conscience.” When discussing celibacy for the monks, he remarks, “The incorruption of the flesh consists not so much in abstaining from woman as it does in integrity of heart.”47

Paul likewise insists on the truth that we can’t split ourselves in two—the “inner me” (soul) and its “outer case” (body). What we do bodily matters spiritually: “Do you not know that whoever is united to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For it is said, ‘The two shall be one flesh’” (1 Cor. 6:16). Paul says that sexual intercourse unites you with another person, whatever your intentions are. What our bodies do has human meaning and spiritual significance. You can’t take the soul out of bodily sex, dissociating yourself spiritually from the “oneness” of the “flesh” involved. In other words, nobody we lust after stays only in our head or only in our bed. Our minds and hearts influence our bodies—a fact that’s true of us in all areas, not just our sexuality. For example, when we are anxious or grieving, we may not be able to breathe calmly, or we may lose our appetite. So also, our bodies affect our hearts and minds, as when we don’t get enough sleep and become irritable or struggle to concentrate; on the positive side, after exercise, we feel better about ourselves, focus better, and have a brighter outlook. We were created as embodied beings, and that is how we will be resurrected. To become fully human like us, Christ took on flesh. We ought not make our spiritual lives too spiritual. What we do with our bodies helps form our character; our bodily desires and daily activities matter for spiritual discipline and discipleship.48 Why should it be any different with sexual desire? The tradition assumes that our body-soul unity figures in every human activity, integrating thought and desire with the outward pursuit of whatever we take to be good. In the case of the desire for sexual pleasure, being called to love your neighbor as yourself means that respecting persons and their bodies includes both your neighbor’s body and your own.

John Mayer sang a song back in 2001 called “Your Body Is a Wonderland.” Not surprisingly, the title and lyrics do not express wonder in the sense of awe. Instead, the song pictures a lover’s body as a personal amusement park, complete with cotton candy. It’s an exciting place to have fun, see the sights, and explore. Then, at the end of the day, when our amusement ends, we can freely leave it behind, along with our trash and our sweat on the vinyl seats. Do we treat our bodies as sacred spaces or a place for cheap thrills? Lustful leering is as irreverent about bodies and their sexuality as it is obsessed with them. Our bodies are more than pleasure-delivery devices, to be used (and discarded) at will. There is nothing wrong with being sexually attractive or thinking someone else is, but that can never be the whole story about us or our relationships to each other. The lustful person’s distorted desire for pleasure leads her to treat both herself and others with less value and dignity than she ought. And that makes lustful expressions of sexuality unfit to communicate the truth about sexuality or about us. Christians view their bodies as members of Christ’s own body, a place where a holy, eternal God dwells (1 Cor. 6:19). We are fearfully and wonderfully made (Ps. 139). God created us in his own image and calls us to represent his divinity in our humanity—so when we trivialize each other sexually, we willingly participate in the “degradation of a king [or queen].”49

Mind Games

Because lust denies what human beings are made for, the depth and value of personhood and our need for love, its siren song characteristically devolves into what Kanye West calls a “beautiful dark twisted fantasy.”50 The sexuality portrayed in music videos, romance novels, advertisements, video games, and films cultivates our imaginations, shapes our attitudes, and influences our inclinations. These carefully curated pictures aren’t real, but they are alluring enough to make us want to forsake reality to chase what they promise. Given our levels of lustful exposure, it would be surprising if our lives didn’t reflect their distorted picture of the good. The content need not be sexually explicit smut to carry forward lust’s work of character formation with alarming effectiveness. Taylor Swift songs make millions off such fantasies, from her contemporizing of Romeo and Juliet’s passionate “Love Story” (this time with a white-dress happy-ever-after ending) to her unapologetic request to be remembered in her lover’s “Wildest Dreams.” My intent is not to single out Swift—this formula for engaging our attention is ubiquitous—but simply to provide a clean enough illustration to include in this book. Male readers may feel a little picked on with all the discussion of porn,51 but female readers are also implicated: lust’s beginnings in our imaginations sell everything from romance novels (i.e., emotional fantasy) to tickets bought by middle-aged women to watch sadistic sex on the big screen (i.e., the Fifty Shades series). The profits from these products alone ought to convince us that lust works by captivating our minds, as the desert fathers and mothers pointed out centuries ago. Evagrius astutely observed that everything starts with “suggestions” (logismoi). If left to settle in, thoughts stir up passions and appetites, which eventually leak into outward expression and action. Married women smitten by the sensual heroes of romantic fiction gradually find their husbands more and more irritatingly inadequate and dissatisfying; men who regularly linger on images of models perfected by photoshopping and enhanced by plastic surgery find themselves longing for something that turns them on more than the imperfect women they are actually with.

Even real love struggles against the power of fantasy, as L’Engle recounts:

Because you’re not what I would have you be

I blind myself to who, in truth, you are

Seeking mirage where desert blooms, I mar

Your you. Aaah, I would like to see

Past all delusion to reality:

Then would I see God’s image in your face,

His hand in yours, and in your eyes his grace.

Because I’m not what I would have me be,

I idolize Two who are not any place,

Not you, not me, and so we never touch.

Reality would burn. I do not like it much.

And yet in you, in me, I find a trace

Of love which struggles to break through

The hidden lovely truth of me, of you.52

Lust colors the eye—and mind—of the beholder. What pictures of sexual satisfaction accumulate in our inner repertoire from soap operas, music videos, romance novels, magazines, catalogs, shop windows, R-rated films, late-night cable shows, or songs on the radio we unconsciously memorize? Do these sources convey truth about human sexuality and its goodness, presenting the real beauty of our bodies and the needs of our hearts? Or does their ubiquitous presence supply a steady stream of fodder to nourish our lustful fantasies?

The tradition describes the long-term effects of lust as a vicious cycle connecting our desires to the contents of our mind and back again. Aquinas and Gregory call lust’s most grave offspring vice “blindness of mind”—the inability to recognize and appreciate goods higher than the pleasure of the flesh or beyond the allure of the moment.53 When lust fills our minds and hearts, spiritual goods go dark. As a result, we pursue bodily pleasures with even greater energy, as if they were the sum total of available happiness. Lust effectively shrinks our world, so that our powers of deliberation and imagination serve its narrowly self-serving, flesh-aimed vision of the good. Pieper strikingly contrasts the distorting power of what he calls lust’s “self-centered will-to-pleasure” with love’s clear vision of the true good: “Only those who look at the world with pure eyes can experience its beauty.”54

Chastity and Other Impossible Virtues

Of course, the problem remains that we can be completely convinced that lust ruins love between human beings and short-circuits our relationship with God—and still not feel able to resist it. If what to do about lust is the question, we will need to offer something more than sermons and sex education as our answer. We should not expect a better book chapter to make temptation fade. Similarly, in matters of nutrition, knowledge of how many calories we need to be healthy does not equal the will to resist a second helping of dessert or forgo the french fries. On a beach full of tanned, glowing skin, the power of lust is still with us. To remedy lust, we will need to embody the truth of what we know in a daily regimen that pushes back against disordered desire.

What drives us to lust? Physiological urges, prodded toward temptation by cues that surround us everywhere and worn into habits by repeated choices and well-traveled neural pathways, are surely a factor. But more than that, what human needs and urges does lust promise to satisfy? As a diagnostic tool, consider when you tend to be most susceptible: late at night when you are tired and recovering from a stressful day, moments when you are alone and find yourself emotionally depleted from demanding encounters with others, times when you need or want an escape, days when lonely longings seem unbearable. Notably, Cassian and others paired gluttony and lust because they have similar triggers and soft spots in which temptation lurks. What do we see if we look beneath the surface? A compassionate view of these “warm” sins of the flesh reveals that they often first catch us feeling empty and afraid, hurt and vulnerable, defensive or frustrated, and promise us a ready reprieve from the ache within.55 Who among us isn’t looking for relief in a world where intimacy is risky, hard, high-investment, and sometimes terribly wounding? Lust feels easier and more comfortable—like an emotional pick-me-up, or a pleasant vacation without the planning or the price tag. Other times, our need to belong, to feel accepted, and to connect with others can lure us into the land of lust’s false promises. Or perhaps we are scraping our own way toward satiety because the relationships we have don’t feel like they will ever be enough, or we are nursing wounds from the past. When we feel rejected or don’t feel lovable, we are tempted to withdraw to more superficial forms of sexual encounter, because they feel safer somehow. Such distancing—even if it dehumanizes—leaves us feeling more in control.56 Lust looks best, therefore, when we are most starved for love. As human beings, we can’t live or thrive without love. We will go to desperate lengths to have it, or to escape from the pain of not having it. (It’s no accident, then, that lust is a typical escapist side effect of sloth.) In such a state, we need grace to drive out our shame and sense of unworthiness, and we need a warm embrace of genuine welcome to quell our sense of disconnection.

Deepening our view of the vice will also mean broadening the parameters of what counts as lustful so that we can see better the territory that chastity will also need to cover. Cultivating chastity includes countering all that we do individually and culturally to unthinkingly indulge hidden lustful patterns of thought, imagination, and attraction in ourselves and others. How can we cultivate our character, inwardly and outwardly, so that our own sexual gratification is not the lens through which we see the world and grasp at it?

Lust thrives in privacy and isolation. Lustful people often feel shame, which also motivates them to keep their struggles hidden from others. But when we hide our hearts, we cannot come to grips with the darkness within, or expose it to the light in confession. This means lust’s remedy requires community, openness, and accountability. Sheer individual willpower will not work. You will not beat this vice alone. Lust’s vicious cycle copycats the dynamics of addiction. We recognize lust as a problem to manage, but we keep our mental and emotional lives private, trying to tackle temptation on our own, making fervent new resolutions, but then failing to live up to them, despising ourselves afterward, and finally falling into despair (“It’s a hopeless fight”; “I’m a lost cause”). We compensate for despair by letting ourselves fall again, this time even deeper. To get out of this shame-and-failure loop, we will have to admit we need help and ask for it, opening ourselves up to someone else who can keep us honest and accountable. Countering lust’s alienating tendencies, chastity requires intentionally being willingly engaged in loving, life-giving community, including the communion of the saints whose stories of rescue and recovery encourage and inspire us. I wonder, too, if we really trust Jesus and his Spirit to give us the power to rebuild a new way forward, step by step. Do we ask for help daily, wanting him to respond, believing in hope that he can and will answer us in our need?

On the purely logistical side of things, a host of small, practical things will also help, of course. They might even be prerequisites for perseverance and progress. We can choose to use computers in public areas, get filters and firewalls, and install accountability apps on our phones. These already count as important ways of relying on community resources. We can know better what makes us vulnerable and schedule alternate activities or call for help during those times. We can resolve to use respectful language and keep our jokes clean. We—both males and females—can dress in ways that are attractive and professional but that are also deliberate in not putting ourselves on display for sexual consumption. We can more intentionally regulate which movies and television shows we watch, which music and video games we play regularly, and which internet sites we peruse. The Minute Maid slogan, “Put good in, get good out,” applies to our moral imagination most of all. Our minds will be full of images and ideas—but which ones? We can follow Paul’s advice to pursue what is true, honorable, just, pure, excellent, and praiseworthy (Phil. 4:8), rather than letting just anything that comes our way drift in.

Note, however, that choosing not to do things that spark or inflame temptation is an insufficient remedy. Cultivating chastity is not a rulebook of don’ts but a positive project of forming our hearts to love wholeheartedly what is beautiful and good. Too often we are half-hearted about it, filling our imaginations and senses with lustful stimuli and then despairing of our ability to keep our desires and behavior in check. We tend to try to walk as close to the edge of the cliff as we can, hoping to keep our balance and not fall off. Chastity commits us to staying away from the edge altogether, by investing ourselves in worthwhile alternatives. It chooses city building to cliff hanging, so to speak.

Of course, it’s needful to “flee from sexuality immorality” (1 Cor. 6:18 NIV)—Aquinas says that sensual temptation generally requires the physical presence of a particular trigger, so our response should be to run away from that object or stimulus or to remove ourselves. But it’s even better to fix our eyes on the good and run toward it instead. How do we do that? Long term, we can practice spiritual disciplines that counter our default worldly attachments and place us instead in the presence of God. When was the last time you pondered God’s name for you—“my beloved”—in contemplative prayer? Have you memorized the passage of Scripture that most reminds you of God’s love and faithfulness toward you? How often do you rehearse it? If someone observed your daily habits, would they see a life intentionally bathed in the love of God, a love that quiets our deep (and sometimes desperate) search for happiness and communion elsewhere? We need daily reminders of what is beautiful and best for us. We also need communities that show us how to rely on the Spirit’s power in faithfulness and hope. As the story of Joe and Jane in this book’s first chapter showed us, virtue yields more than persistent teeth-gritting restraint against temptation (although it often starts there). It frees us to love, so delightedly absorbed with true beauty and real goodness that temptation no longer plagues us. Good character bears fruit in integrity, ease, and joy.

Whether single or married, old or young, God wants us to learn to appreciate good and attractive things without our own ego in the way. Chastity as a full-bodied virtue keeps sexual goods, desires, and pleasures ordered to the good of the whole person and his or her vocation to love.57 It focuses on the fundamental question, “How can my whole life—my thoughts, my choices, my emotional responses, my conversation, and my behavior—make me a person who is best prepared to give and receive love in relationship with others?” Chastity preserves and protects and paves the way for wholeness in all our relationships, all the time, albeit through different disciplines for people with different vocations, in different relationships, and at different stages of life. All of us need good human community.58 Constructively channeling our sexual desires empowers us to love each other well.

If this kind of love seems unreachable, do not despair. To break the hold lust has on our hearts, we will need to claim the supernatural power and goodness of a loving God who reaches down into the depths and reclaims us. Recall the brash prayer of seventeen-year-old Augustine: “[Lord,] grant me chastity . . . but not yet.” Augustine later calls the cumulative effect of his choices “the chains of habit.” His story shows us that when we find ourselves helpless against the bondage of vice, God has the power to break any chain. Augustine’s hopeful and grace-filled testimony is that when he found himself failing over and over again, in despair because of his lack of willpower (and even his lack of wholehearted desire to be free of lust), he heard God asking him this question: “Why are you relying on yourself, only to find yourself unreliable?”59

Augustine’s story is timelessly human. His struggle with lust painfully and vividly illustrates the power of sin—because all sin is like this, for all of us. The hold of sin on our hearts can only be broken by divine grace and healed by love. There is simply no other cure. In the end, the relieved and newly freed Augustine prays, “My God . . . you have broken my chains.”60 Chastity must be our chosen habit, a new identity we intentionally claim and live into. But it is first and always God’s gracious and beautiful gift.

The best advice, then, for resisting lust is not to get a good internet filter (although you should do that too) but to build good friendships. If we have fully human relationships in which we learn to give and receive love in appropriate and satisfying ways, we will be less inclined to wander off looking for sham substitutes and quick fixes. Good friendships teach us how to respect each other, to offer appropriate physical affection, to appreciate and care for others without looking for something in return, and to trust one another. Someone who knows what real love looks like, whether in a sexual relationship or not, will be less swayed by lustful pleasures as a tempting alternative. C. S. Lewis said, “What we call ‘being in love’ is a glorious state, and, in several ways, good for us. It helps to make us generous and courageous, it opens our eyes not only to the beauty of the beloved but to all beauty, and it subordinates . . . our merely animal sexuality; in that sense, love is the great conqueror of lust.”61 If your relationships with others and with God adequately feed your need to love and be loved, you will both see through and despise what lust has to offer.

Aquinas strikingly describes our relationship to God as “the love of friendship,” following Jesus’s words in John 15.62 To overcome lust, we need to be fundamentally anchored in this love, for which no human substitute is ultimately possible—even in marriage (which we can easily idolize and expect too much from). Christ challenges us to live out of God’s love in his new commandment (John 15:12), a mandate he gives all disciples and members of his body. Chastity keeps our identity as members of Christ and those beloved by God at the fore of our self-understanding and the way we view others.

Sexual vice illustrates that the greater the power and beauty of the good at stake, the greater the destruction and the potential for ugliness and evil. A short film called Flame compares sex to fire. When we respect the power of fire and keep it in its proper place, we can appreciate its beauty and bask in its warmth.63 At the end of the film, a man douses a pile of timber as tall as a house with gasoline. Then he takes the tiny flame of his lighter and sets it ablaze. The whole night sky is illuminated by the conflagration, flames leaping up to the heavens in the middle of a snowy, barren landscape. Don’t settle for less than God’s good gifts, he says. Instead, by respecting and protecting the real power of love, you may “discover the big flame.”

L’Engle writes to her “long-loved love”:

Unclench your fists

Hold out your hands

Take mine.

Let us hold each other.

Thus is his Glory

Manifest.64

FURTHER REFLECTION

How has your disordered pursuit of sexual pleasure and self-gratification hurt you? What collateral damage has it had? Where are your struggles rooted? When are you most vulnerable? Has your community helped you, or has it made things harder? How?

How does lust spoil our ability to experience pleasure? To appreciate beauty? To rejoice in community?

What practices help us cultivate the virtues of temperance and chastity? How can we better celebrate human sexuality and healthy physical relationships as beautiful gifts? What picture of the human body would this require? What picture of our humanity and our relationships with each other would these practices express?

FURTHER READING

Colleen McCluskey, “Lust and Chastity,” in Virtues and Their Vices, ed. Kevin Timpe and Craig Boyd (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014), 115–35.

Dallas Willard, The Divine Conspiracy (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1998), 158–73.

XXXchurch.com

c15S

10 
The Rest of the Journey

Self-Examination, the Seven Capital Vices, and Spiritual Formation

The most important thing in your life is not what you do; it’s who you become.

—Dallas Willard, quoted in John Ortberg, Soul Keeping

Discipleship is the process of becoming who Jesus would be if he were you.

—Dallas Willard, Renovation of the Heart

One day I confessed my deep discouragement and spiritual struggle to a wise and beloved friend. In my bewilderment at what God was doing in my life, I could see only brokenness. I could taste the agonized tears of Gethsemane. I had prayed fervently for a bitter cup to pass, but it hadn’t. Now I felt like I was facing crucifixion. The pain was acute; my heart ached. I could see with terrible clarity what was dying and being stripped away. To be honest, I felt forsaken.

My friend listened to my struggle in somber silence. Then she gave me a picture. Construction workers had come to her house to replace a broken window. Expecting a simple substitution—new for old—after the day’s work, she was deeply dismayed to see her walls full of new cracks, her room full of construction debris, and everything coated with dust. Things had not been replaced and restored, only further torn apart.

Days passed.

Eventually, the workers returned, put up new drywall, and painted. When they left, the room looked better than it ever had. “You see, I had to wait for them to finish,” she said.

Then she turned to me, “Perhaps the word you need to hear from God today is this: ‘Wait for me to finish.’” In the darkness of my distress over what was broken, I had forgotten to wait in hope for God to make all things new.1

Growing in Godliness

I hope that the self-examination prompted by this study of the vices helps us recognize how serious a threat they are. They disorder our deepest loves and damage our relationships. However, that cannot be the whole reason we study them, nor can it be the whole story of our lives.

The vices tradition gives us a compelling picture of sin. We’ve learned that the word “capital” (caput, capitis in Latin) means “head” or “source.” The list of seven vices originally earned this label because they functioned as “first principles” or “sources” from which many other sins sprung. Before you’d read the previous chapters, could you have imagined how deeply pride was rooted in your heart or how much fruit the vices had borne in you?

It can be discouraging to see! But this book’s work would be incomplete if it left us in dismay and despair.

With Cassian, we have pictured sin as a tree—a tree with roots, trunk, branches, and fruit. Pride serves as the root and trunk of the tree. This depiction of the vices put pride at the foundation, as the principal source from which the seven other main branches grow. Each branch produces its own characteristic fruit. The tree’s rootedness in pride keeps it firmly planted and all its branches well nourished.

These images teach us that we can’t leave sin at the root of our lives. It won’t just sit there benignly, safely underground. Sin is organic and dynamic—it grows, it branches out, it bears fruit. We also can’t just pick off some fruit or trim a few twigs once in a while. A well-rooted and nourished tree will keep growing more.

Why single out pride for this ultimate position? The prideful person claims that God is not her ultimate good and that she does not need God to provide for her. That initial movement of refusal triggers a cascading reaction, coloring the rest of what we think, feel, and do.

If we follow our prideful desires for a moment, we see what it looks like to reject God as our ultimate good and to be lured away by other things. The past seven chapters give us plenty of options to choose from: pleasure, security, comfort, control, wealth, status, approval, success, reputation. These are all good, too, aren’t they? Yes, they are. So we take a good thing—let’s say wealth—and decide that it will make us happy.

How does money work as a God substitute? Pretty well, you might think: If we have enough money, we can provide whatever else we need for ourselves. And money is something we seem to be able to get on our own, without needing God (especially if we adopt the familiar advice to work hard, network well, invest shrewdly, etc.). So we substitute wealth for finding happiness in God. As we make money the center instead of God, though, the pursuit of this good becomes a pattern, a lifestyle. It’s not an occasional, “once in a while” sin. In the tradition’s terms, we have developed a vice. A habit has emerged, reflecting the shape of our hearts and minds, our dreams and imaginations, our expectations and emotions. Our habits say a lot about who we are.

There’s a problem with money, however—or with anything else we might choose on the list of created things promising us security and satisfaction: The more we have, the more we want. And more. And more. Our desires escalate, and with them, our commitments and devotion to pursue this good. Little by little, our lives become wrapped up in what our money can buy. Little by little, we become more indifferent to human need, more deserving of our economic status and success because we earned it, more willing to cut corners ethically to make sure we get a discount or turn a profit, more discontented with what we already have and anxious to upgrade, even severing relationships or turning a blind eye toward others’ harm in order to serve our lifestyle of having things and getting more.

Our greed bears fruit—fruits of character that the tree of vices predicts—fruit like hard-heartedness, deceit, and restlessness. The vice of greed applies not to a person who occasionally overvalues money or keeps too much for himself but to a greedy person. A greedy person’s thoughts are colored by greed; his conversation revolves around his earnings and possessions and his concern for them. He feels good about himself because of what he owns. In his eyes, what he has is well deserved, independent of others’ contributions; he cannot see the need to be grateful. Likewise, a greedy person’s feelings and desires reflect her greed-centered values. Her commitments and priorities and time are shaped by what she owns and by her desire for things that she is eager to buy. Her identity and conversation revolve around her purchases.

Maybe greed isn’t your particular weakness. Maybe the created good in which you would place your hopes for fulfillment looks more like comfort or pleasure, power or status, or getting recognition and approval from others. That’s the thing—the devil has a “sin package” specially designed for each of us. Nevertheless, whatever vice you find yourself susceptible to, the trouble is the same: habitual pursuit of any created thing in God’s place will lead to unhappiness, self-destruction, and enslavement. What starts out as apparently fulfilling turns out leaving us empty. Sometimes we don’t even realize what we’re doing or where we’ve ended up until it feels like it’s too late. Sometimes we’re so caught up in it that we can’t even see how far we’ve gone, how tightly we’re attached, how much we’ve changed.

Which is just to say that sin is a hard habit to break.

And if it were up to us, we’d all end up broken.

When we embark on a life of discipleship to Jesus Christ, these sinful habits need to die. We need to bring our broken selves to the foot of the cross in confession and repentance. We need to ask God to hack down the old tree, cut off the branches, and throw them into the fire.

But in the middle of that hard, messy process, we cannot forget the promise of new life, for we not only claim Jesus’s power in exposing and confessing our old bad habits and uprooting our old broken self; we also claim his power to be resurrected and re-created. To put it in terms of the tree image—there’s a tree for virtue too. When we tap into a new root system, we begin to grow into something new. Jesus promises, “I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit” (John 15:5 NIV). The Spirit nourishes growth in godliness. By rooting ourselves in God’s love, we begin to grow new branches and produce new fruit. These new habits build up a new lifestyle, and through them we become someone who is more and more Christlike in her character.

Spiritual practices immerse us intentionally in this growing process. The life of spiritual transformation follows a pattern: dying and rising, repentance and renewal. With enough self-examination, we can see a glaring gap between our old self, marked by attachment to vice, and the new self we can become, re-created with Christlike virtues. What bridges the gap? Practicing the spiritual, Spirit-empowered disciplines. The traditional disciplines push back against the old habits that we repent of and break us open to receive new ways of life. They call us to “not be conformed” to the ways we used to live, and they help us “be transformed” by the Spirit into a self whose life now imitates the character of Jesus Christ (Rom. 12:2).2 They teach us both resistance to sin and receptivity to the Spirit.

Recall that John Cassian puts the twofold strategy behind the disciplines this way: “As is the case with the most skilled physicians, who not only heal present ills but also confront future ones with shrewd expertise and forestall them with prescriptions . . . so also the true physicians of souls destroy as with some heavenly medicine these maladies of the heart just as they are about to emerge, not allowing them to grow in the minds of the young but disclosing to them both the causes of the passions that threaten them and the means of acquiring health.”3 Cassian’s metaphor shows that the process of self-examination exposes what’s wrong, destructive, and broken, but it also reveals the way forward, the way of life. After all, you go to the doctor not because you are hoping to receive a bad diagnosis. You seek a doctor because she is an expert who knows how to treat you, heal you, and restore you to wholeness.

Both looking within and finding a path forward will require our resolute attentiveness as well as our trust in God.

Self-knowledge is tied in with inner work, which is both demanding and painful. Change occurs amid birth pangs. It takes courage to walk such a path. Many avoid the path of self-knowledge because they are afraid of being swallowed up in their own abysses. But Christians have confidence that Christ has lived through all the abysses of human life and that he goes with us when we dare to engage in sincere confrontation with ourselves. Because God loves us unconditionally—along with our dark sides—we don’t need to dodge ourselves. In the light of this love, the pain of self-knowledge can be at the same time the beginning of our healing.4

We can think of the spiritual disciplines as a rehabilitation and wellness program through which we learn to live more and more fully the kind of life God made us for. Or, to return to our tree metaphor, the goal is not just to kill the weeds of vice but to cultivate a garden of Christlike virtues.

This suggests that the spiritual discipline of Sabbath-keeping, for example, may be a way of pushing back against or limiting our bad habits of being too confident in our own achievements or too controlled by our own work, plans, and performance. At the same time, however, it gives us a sweet taste of the rest and refreshment we need in order to do the work that God calls us to do, so that we can do it better and more wholeheartedly. It also provides a moment in which we hold still long enough to listen attentively to that call. “It is never a sign of health or godliness to be well adjusted to a sick society,” writes A. J. Swoboda. “Sabbath goes against the very structure and system of the world we have constructed. Sabbath, then, becomes a kind of resistance to that world.”5 That resistance targets internal rhythms along with external systems. Our hearts are overcommitted to the worlds we have made, internalized, and invested our identity in.

Initially, then, Sabbath may be “a gift we do not know how to receive” or value, or even how to desire.6 That is why spiritual formation includes discipline. With practice, Sabbath-keeping gradually awakens new desires, cultivates new habits, opens up new ways of seeing, and walks us into new rhythms of life. Then we can work from a deep well of love, in the peace of knowing that God is also working in and through us. Very likely, we will find that laying down the identity we have invested in our work and deliberately choosing instead to live against the world’s reward systems for that work requires (initially painful) detachment. But how many of us wouldn’t live fuller and more fruitful, gracious lives if we rested better and regularly attended quietly to the presence of the Lord? What would happen to our acquisitive consumption and our angry comportment toward the world if we practiced Sabbath regularly, as a habit? This book began with my own story of pusillanimity and my beginner’s attempts at Sabbath-keeping. That was over two decades ago now. God knows, almost all of us learn to lay things down the hard way, over the course of many, many years.

Consider another example of a spiritual discipline: Practicing stillness or silence may mean we have to curb the constant noisiness, music, and chatter that serve as convenient filler for the real emptiness at the center of our lives. It may mean we have to face our loneliness or lack of meaning. But it may also be a chance to relearn how to breathe deeply and rediscover how full of God’s presence and beauty that silence can be. It may teach us how to stop sleepwalking through life and how to be fully awake, fully alive, fully aware of the gifts present in each day. In silence, we may learn to listen, without intrusions from our own agenda. Josef Pieper may be right when he says, “Only the silent hear.”7

We have an opportunity every day to engage in all these spiritual disciplines and more—as practices of penitence and patterns of renewal.

All that’s to say, if you are rooted in Christ, you can expect to be changed. If you sink your roots deep into his love and power, you can expect to grow in godliness. If—with open hands—you give the Holy Spirit a grateful “yes” in your life, you will find yourself bearing new fruit.

A word of caution though: You should not only expect to grow; you should expect the unexpected. You see, these are graced disciplines, not valiant human efforts to be better. We should not reduce fasting to some kind of spiritual diet plan, fueled by human willpower and high-fiber, low-calorie snacks. Instead, by fasting we say to God, “Something as everyday as my eating is part of a life of discipleship too. I want to be attuned to the ways you are going to form me here. This discipline is my way of saying that my desires are deformed here in ways I probably don’t even understand, but I want you to transform them.”

Let me also say as a word of caution that the disciplines are just that: disciplines, daily practices, habit formation, doing the drill. They’re not always exciting. You might wonder what the big deal is and why these apparently little things are supposed to be magically transformative. But as days turn into weeks, and weeks turn into months, you may well find yourself turning too—turning into someone new. You might find that it takes years of faithfulness in a practice before you “get” what’s already happened to you and what’s still happening in you.

I’m using the language of something happening “to you” and “in you” on purpose. The spiritual disciplines often feel, at least initially, like something we’re doing ourselves—“I’m fasting,” “I’m keeping Sabbath,” “I’m practicing silence.” But this is only how things look on the surface. Remember Jesus’s words: “Just as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me” (John 15:4).

Where are you rooted? How are you growing? What part of your life are you willing to open to God? What intentional, faithful practices will help you sink your roots deep into God’s love? Jesus’s command comes with a promise: “Abide in me as I abide in you. . . . Those who abide in me and I in them bear much fruit, because apart from me you can do nothing” (John 15:4–5). With him, we can bear much fruit, showing ourselves to be his disciples.

The Gift and Practice of Conforming (and Being Conformed)

Self-examination (of the sort likely prompted while you read this book, and while I wrote it) can feel painful. It might prompt discomfort, grief, agonized regret, or even hopelessness. We often don’t like what we discover when we use the lens of the capital vices to look within. Probably the most common reaction is to want to do something about the mess and darkness we find. That’s understandable. But it’s also a reason to be careful about next steps.

The end of a book on the vices would be a natural place to offer a self-help, fix-it, do-something-about-it solution, wouldn’t it? How handy it would be to offer a neat correspondence of vices and virtues. If you are greedy, be generous; if you are lustful, be chaste. Let’s get going, virtue team!

I think that’s a misleading way to put the matter, though. Here’s why: Aristotle was right about habituation, but only partly right. Habituation simply means forming a habit by practice—practicing your way into virtuous character and living. This approach is partly right because there are things we have to do. We rightly call Christianity a “way of life,” after all, and not merely a set of disembodied beliefs about something. “A disciple is a person who has decided that the most important thing in their life is to learn how to do what Jesus said to do,” writes Dallas Willard.8 So practice, or daily activity, stands at the heart of things in an undeniable way. As Aristotle agreed, practice aims not simply to produce behavior but to form character. Willard continues: Jesus “does not call us [only] to do what he did, but to be as he was, permeated with love. Then the doing of what he did and said becomes the natural expression of who we are in him.”9

You won’t practice the spiritual disciplines long, however, before you confront the sober truth: We can’t make ourselves Christlike, no matter how hard we try. Practice, discipline, and all the things we do can’t be the whole story, because human agency isn’t the whole story.

We learn this lesson from Augustine’s Confessions. Our own story—if it too is written as a confession of faith in God’s power and providential plans—must be more than simply recounting what we do and have done. It must be a prayer acknowledging God as the principal author of our lives. Is it any wonder that Augustine begins the narrative of his own life by praising God for his unsearchable wisdom? Augustine thereby admits that even though he’s narrating his own life story, he doesn’t have the whole story. Ultimately, his is a story of what God has done in and for and with him. So at the end of the book, after decades of wrestling unsuccessfully with his disordered and now habitual desires, Augustine directly confronts his need for God and for grace. God called him to Christlike humility, but instead Augustine tried to willpower his way to change. How like us! In the words of my favorite moment from the Confessions, Augustine hears the voice of God asking: “Why are you relying on yourself, only to find yourself unreliable?”10 If we recognize such self-reliance as one more prideful gasp of the old self, then we need to reframe our discussion. More is needed than willing and working our own way toward greater virtue, better selves, and happier lives.

The whole point of the desert self-examination program was, finally, to be more like Jesus Christ and to live in communion with God. Colossians 3 describes the Christlike virtues we need to put on as “compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience” (v. 12 NIV). Over all of them, we put on love—because having those character traits fits us for a perfect relationship of love. If this book has shown us anything, it’s that the worst thing about the vices is that they thwart our ability to love and be loved.

If you look closer at the context of that passage in Colossians, however, you find more than a list of virtues to cultivate. You realize that these are the character traits of those who have been reborn in Christ and are now his new creations, full of God’s Spirit. To think that we can practice our way into this program is a terrible, and terribly frustrating, error. We can debate differences between “résumé virtues” and “eulogy virtues,” embark on “happiness projects,” and develop sixty-six-day programs to conscientiously cultivate new neural pathways of motivation for health and fitness, and yet still walk away blind to the way the project remains fundamentally humanistic, self-powered striving.11 If our final goal is to possess Christlike character—and all the virtues that are part of it—then human means will always fall short. The way to get to that kind of character takes a different kind of practice.

What’s the difference? Isn’t it practice just the same? The spiritual disciplines may seem like more things to do—that is, after all, why they are called disciplines. John Stott once said, “Holiness is not a condition into which we can drift.”12 One of my favorite cartoons is Coffee with Jesus. In a certain strip, the character Carl glibly says to Jesus:

“I like being a believer in you, Jesus. You’re a good friend.”

“And I like that you’re a believer, Carl,” Jesus responds. “But I’d prefer you were a disciple.”

“What’s the difference?” asks Carl.

Jesus replies: “Discipline.”13

Here’s the key: the spiritual disciplines do form us as disciples, but they do so by teaching us submission to the Spirit’s powerful but patient transformative work within. They create space in us to receive God’s love. This is no seven-step, ten-week program formulated to produce or achieve Spiritual Outcome X or Y. Spiritual disciplines gradually open us up to the Spirit’s work. Sharon Garlough Brown calls self-examination and subsequent transformational work “heart surgery.” Notice the language that fits such a metaphor: we undergo surgery. In this program Christ is the Great Physician. So you submit, while God operates. Spiritual disciplines put us in a position to receive what we need. Even when they prompt activity, what we do attunes us to ways Christ is already present and his Spirit is already working. Their outcomes and effects in us don’t ultimately lie under our control. “All great spirituality is about letting go.”14 All spiritual disciplines therefore embody humility, trust, and open-handed faith.

The tasks of conforming to the character of Christ and learning to be drawn into the life and heart of God take a lifetime. For this reason, some authors call the spiritual life a journey. The whole point is to move forward toward the goal, but sometimes it feels like slow going. Often we think we know where we’re headed, but then we face delays and detours. Occasionally we can’t see where we are going at all because it’s so dark or there are too many distractions.

To pick up Paul’s metaphor in Colossians 3, we can change our clothing relatively easily. With a single makeover, we can progress from fashion faux pas to phenomenal style. Putting on a new self, however—a new identity, with integrity—is much harder. Such transformation into virtue requires not our wardrobe, not just window dressing, but our whole person. As Paul puts it, “Clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience” (Col. 3:12 NIV, emphasis added).

Think of it this way: we are always being formed by and conforming to something, so who and what we conform to makes all the difference. The best way to stop conforming to the old self and living according to the patterns of the vices is to be continually conforming to Christ instead. Ephesians 4 also uses the “putting off” and “putting on” picture of the life of discipleship—put off falsehood and put on truthfulness, put off anger and put on forgiveness, put off unwholesome talk and put on encouraging words, put off malice and put on kindness. Paul sums up all these commands using whole-self, whole-life language: “Be imitators of God, . . . and live in love, as Christ loved us” (Eph. 5:1).

Human lives get worn with all sorts of grooves and ruts from practice—in the form of daily routines, mental default patterns, imaginative habits, and emotional expectations. Perhaps you discovered some of these in yourself while reading this book. Sometimes we settle into habits that form us before we realize it.

To be always conforming, then, does not mean being a mindless conformist as we are when we are shaped by advertising or by our culture. If the desert fathers and mothers are right, our default patterns (the vices) are self-destructive. How can we get out of these ruts? When Paul tells us to conform instead to the character of Jesus Christ (Eph. 5), the very fact that he’s instructing us to do this means that he’s expecting us to make an intentional commitment. Likewise, he says, “Set your minds on things above” (Col. 3:2 NIV), “Be transformed by the renewing of your mind” (Rom. 12:2), “Be made new in the attitude of your minds” (Eph. 4:23 NIV), and “Whatever is excellent, and true, think about these things” (Phil. 4:8). In other words, don’t just drift along—be attentive to who you are becoming, be aware that your choices along the way make a difference, and watch that your words and actions mirror Christ’s. Hopefully this book’s prompts to self-examination have given you a head start down that road.

What does mindful conformity to Christ look like? No need to reinvent the wheel here. Christian disciples have been at this for ages. How do people conforming to the character of Jesus Christ live, work, and pray; eat, rest, save, spend, socialize, study, and play; celebrate, mourn, gather, and worship? Look back in history, look deep into Scripture, and look around you. Disciples of Jesus keep the Sabbath, they fast, they confess and lament, they pray through the psalms, they give alms and tithe, they recount God’s faithfulness, they sing spiritual songs and express gratitude and praise, they anoint the sick, they welcome the stranger, they feed the hungry, they meditate on Scripture, they rejoice and give thanks, they take time for quiet and rest, they weep but not as those who have no hope.

Some Christians have lists of these practices of conformity. We’ve called them spiritual disciplines. But whatever we call them, we need to understand them not as occasional acts of heroism or saintliness for the few but as a set of everyday practices for everyone. In the words of Tish Harrison Warren, they form a “liturgy of the ordinary.”15 How we eat, what we wear, how we work, how much we sleep, what we buy, how we speak, and what we speak about—all are mundane, daily things. Extraordinary conformity, it turns out, emerges from ordinary routines. The imitation of Christ counts as something to do today and each day. We can’t take up the project of living like Jesus on occasional retreats, or when the semester is over, or when we finally have a day off. We are to be always conforming.

Let me offer one more story of my own daily practice—already briefly alluded to in the chapter on gluttony—lest you come away with the impression that this is simply a matter of trying harder to conform yourself to the character of Jesus Christ. We have already heard Richard Foster say that “fasting reveals the things that control us.”16 When I first read his book, I was a bit taken aback. Wasn’t fasting just about eating less and praying more? I was curious, not having fasted much before. So that year during Lent, I decided to try it. Fasting can be done in many forms; the details aren’t so important here. For most of my day, I was either skipping eating when I was used to eating or I was eating much less than I was used to eating. The result? I was hungry most of the time. It probably won’t surprise you that my desires needed retraining and restraining even more than I initially expected. But even more, I discovered that all my breaks from work involved eating. First, I took a ten o’clock coffee break, then a short lunch break, then an after-school snack break with my kids, a break for dinner, and best of all, a break for dessert—which was my final break and a chance to relax when the day’s work was all done. I had built my entire day around this little help-yourself reward system. Without my usual eating at many of those times, I was at a loss as to what to do. So I began using that time to pray. Awkward as it felt at first, I would stop working, give thanks to God for whatever had come my way so far, and ask his blessing on the remainder of the day. It takes a while for a new habit to feel natural, but by week four or so, it began to dawn on me that my mindless eating had been just another busy activity keeping me away from inner quiet and prayer. I needed those prayer breaks more than I needed a cup of coffee or a cookie.

Beyond this noble spiritual lesson that I began (haltingly) to learn, however, other lessons emerged from the simple fact that fasting meant eating less. Being hungry most of the time made me downright irritable. I was irritable partly because I couldn’t have what I wanted. I couldn’t reward my work with the pleasures I felt I deserved. But I also found myself irritable because eating less made me tired. It turned out that I couldn’t keep up my usual agenda of activities while fasting—because that agenda was fueled by regular bursts of caffeine, sugar, and snacks (even healthy ones). I was a power-eater, grabbing whatever was within easy reach to fuel my performance-packed, on-the-run lifestyle. That’s how I was eating, because that’s how I was living. Day after day, I realized, the “old self” I had become was someone who measured her own worth in terms of efficiency, to-do lists, achievements, and productivity. While fasting, by contrast, I needed more breaks, more mental rest, and more sleep. That meant I had to give up some extra things I would otherwise have added to my already busy schedule. Not accidentally, it also meant that when I had to stop and rest, I ended up talking to people I would have otherwise ignored (including God) in my rush to get more things done.

Fasting as a regular practice didn’t just take food away. It began to eat away at a lifestyle enabled by eating in the wrong ways, for the wrong reasons, and with the wrong desires. To my surprise and chagrin, I found that I had been using food to conform to the wrong standards of success. About three weeks into Lent, I had a crabby conversation with God that went something like this: “Lord, I gave you my eating. I did not give you control of my schedule and all my plans for what needs to get done!” Fasting scratched through my surface-level Christianity and found pride alive, well, and running the real show.

As it turns out, God works transformation wherever we need it. Through the disciplines, God’s Spirit starts detaching us from our false pictures of happiness and our false views of the selves we want to be, and he starts drawing us closer to a Christlike self instead. Spiritual disciplines may be something we do intentionally, but at the same time they require submitting ourselves, being receptive, and opening ourselves to whatever ways we need to be changed.

It should not be surprising, then, that as hard as I found giving up food, what I found even harder about fasting was the self—a deeply valued picture of myself—that I had to relinquish along with the food I gave up. It was painful to let go of the always-busy, high-achiever, in-control version of me that I had invested my identity in and got so much social approval for. Those things confirmed my view of myself as successful and important. That way of doing things made me feel that my life counted as worthy and worthwhile. Behind my fasting, I came face-to-face with my false self. I realized for myself that “there is nothing people are so fixated on as their self-image. We are literally prepared to go through hell just so we don’t have to give it up. It determines most of what we do or don’t do, say or don’t say, what we occupy ourselves with and what we don’t. We are all affected by it. The question is: Do I have the freedom to be anything other than this?”17

Fasting counted as a discipline not only because it was a challenging exercise but also because it was God’s way of discipling me, challenging aspects of my old self and calling forth something new. In my practice of intentional conformity, God stripped away part of my old self and conformed me more to his image and likeness. God is in the new-creation business. The power of God’s Spirit surprised me along the way. After a while, I not only felt much better with less food but also delighted in the quiet and the time with others that a shorter to-do list made possible. Now when my schedule fills up, I find myself prompted to return to those good things by my own hunger for them. God calls us not to slavish conformity to rigid practices and pointless rules but rather to a grace-filled opportunity to taste true rest, love, and freedom.

But back up a minute—back to the “always” in “always conforming.” It’s not as though I could fast for a single Lenten season, learn a tidy and timeless lesson about grace and the new Christlike self, and then be done. Each year, I slip back a little and need a new Lenten season to relearn and be renewed as an imitator of Christ’s character and virtue. Lent comes around every year for a reason. The church year circles around and around again. There’s an “always” lesson here too. We must keep conforming to Christ Jesus—over and over and over again. We’ll find endless depths and eternal fruits as we do, and even a lifetime will not exhaust the ways we can become more like him.

The human-powered, self-help version of virtue cultivation will never be adequate because the project of “always conforming” ultimately describes the Holy Spirit’s work in us. We need the Spirit, because to become like Christ is a call to something immeasurably more than we can ask for or imagine. The process of putting off the old self and putting on the new self reveals nothing less than God’s power at work within us.

How can we parse the transformation that happened when I fasted? Was it God’s work or mine? It was both. Was it under my control? Yes and no. Yes, I had decided to practice and then had to follow through. But did I get to decide what parts of me needed rehabilitation? Not really (as my kicking and screaming attested). The exercise opened the door and let the Spirit come in to heal whatever needed healing. Stanley Hauerwas and Charles Pinches agree: “Our character is indeed an achievement, but one that comes as a gift. . . . We can grow in Christian virtue, yet it is best to describe this as growth in grace.”18 Living a life of graced discipline effects a gradual process—a rehabilitative walk in Christ’s footsteps that Eugene Peterson wisely called “a long obedience in the same direction.”19

Grace and God’s Spirit work the miracle of transformation beyond the reaches of our striving. The disciplines teach us to submit to that work and to open ourselves to the change that is needed.

Comprehensive, Concrete, and Communal

Fortunately, the world already contains a treasure trove of insight and instruction about the spiritual disciplines (see the end of the chapter for further reading). I won’t duplicate that material here, only point you to it. As you dig deeper and explore further, though, remember three things.

First, the disciplines are comprehensive. Spiritual disciplines mark off routine, quiet devotional time away from the rush and bustle of the daily grind—but they also redirect our eating, sleeping, working, listening, resting, speaking, paying attention, reading, celebrating, caregiving, giving, spending, and receiving. Practiced well, they leave no arena of your life unshaped and no corner of your heart untouched. In her introduction to the spiritual disciplines, Adele Ahlberg Calhoun lists all-embracing disciplines such as “slowing” and “detachment,” which inform the way we engage in all other activities. She also includes “creation care” and “hospitality,” which include large- and small-scale ways of comporting ourselves toward the earth and toward our neighbors.20 How we shop, what recreation we choose and enjoy, where we live, what we consume, how we spend our leisure time, the forms of transportation we use—everything that shapes and expresses our hearts’ deepest attachments falls under Christ’s lordship and the Spirit’s transforming mission. It’s not sufficient for Christians to tack prayer and worship onto their lifestyles as “extra activities” and then stick to business as usual everywhere else. Rather, the new narrative of our participation in the life and love of God colors everything we dream about, desire, and do—our entire way of life.21

Second, the disciplines are concrete. You may have already realized that by calling them “spiritual” I do not mean to suggest that they encompass only ethereal, mental, or soul-care type matters. Think of them instead as earthy, embodied, everyday practices. Kathleen Norris called them “quotidian mysteries.”22 They are things to do, activities carried out by embodied beings. Having the mind of Christ and being transformed inwardly should show in how we speak and act. But the reverse also holds. Repeated actions—the disciplines, which form a way of life—also form and inform our hearts and minds. How do you become virtuous? By performing acts of virtue—first, as a beginner or apprentice, copying what the mature virtuous person does (with imperfect motivation, unnaturalness, and even some resistance and discomfort).23 At this point, the learner cannot fully grasp why she must do the things she is instructed to do. But habituation itself includes or inculcates a kind of practical know-how. Through repetition, she learns to inhabit the world in a different way. Her practice shapes and colors different “passions and perceptions.”24 With time and the guidance of role models and the counsel of master practitioners, her practice produces greater and greater proficiency. Finally, the mature virtuous person can look back on her training and endorse the process as having made her genuinely better and led to her flourishing. At that moment, she not only sees the good more clearly; she can also intentionally endorse that way of life as best for her.25

In short, “being” and “doing” are not separate enterprises. Character formation is a way of life, and our way of life is character forming. Someone who practices gratitude does grateful things and expresses gratitude, but she also views the world through a different lens, experiencing its goodness as a gift. With enough practice, it becomes clear that her former cynical attitude led to a myopic vision of what was happening around her and caused her to miss the gift and beauty of what was really there. Her previous complaints no longer rise to the level of being noteworthy, or they are swamped by other features of the landscape that motivate rejoicing.

Finally, practicing the spiritual disciplines should be a communal endeavor. Protestants especially might be tempted to make the mistake of trying to engage in spiritual practices or formation on their own, as individuals. Each Christian, though loved by God uniquely as an individual, is essentially a member of the body of Christ and the communion of saints. Moreover, some disciplines are naturally social (e.g., worship and celebration).26 Our growth in godliness flourishes in the mutually encouraging community of the church, in both its local and its historical forms. This book opened with a story of how Thomas Aquinas helped me face my pusillanimity, and this chapter began with a word of wisdom from my spiritual director, speaking a bracing word like an “amma” or “abba” from the desert. We’ve already seen how fasting and feasting can be done corporately. When my students and I practiced three minutes of silence together at the beginning of each class, it changed the dynamics of our relationship to each other, and it changed our subsequent discussions. The discernment we need for self-examination and the guidance we need to practice the disciplines require a community of examples, role models, mentors, partners, encouragers, and loving friends. Never underestimate how much we need each other along the way.

A colleague once gave a chapel talk comparing the rhythms of the spiritual life to jumping on a trampoline.27 On the first few bounces, you sink and rise only a little. As you gain momentum, however, the force of your downward weight pushes you lower and lower, while the buoyancy of the springs propels you higher and higher. He compared this dynamic to facing the depths of our sin, which then serves as a springboard for rising to grasp the heights of God’s mercy. Likewise, the higher you drop from—that is, the more aware you are of the limitless reach of God’s gracious and loving embrace—the lower you can go as God unveils layers of sin further and further beneath the surface. This might help explain why some of the greatest saints have such a dark view of their own hearts, while at the same time appearing to be beautifully sanctified people full of trust and joy. Their heightened sense of their belovedness in Christ makes possible the depths of their contrition.

The introduction to self-examination encountered here marks only the beginning of a lifelong journey. As we continue to look within—through the eyes of love, not judgment—we will keep learning to see ourselves more truly, and we will learn to more truly long for greater holiness. As we accustom ourselves to hear God call us his beloved and secure our identity in that word about us, we will grow to trust him with our idols, our faults, our persistent weaknesses, our disordered attachments, and even the worst of our shame. Under the Great Physician’s care, we can become healed, whole, and well. Our spiritual health and abundant life are the good he seeks. Our spiritual wholeness enables us to give ourselves more fully to God and to his kingdom work with joy, gratitude, hope, and peace. With that vision and calling, and leaning on his grace and mercy, we can face our vices and find new life through the power of the Spirit.

In the deserts of Egypt, the practice of naming the vices and training for resistance was only the first stage of the project. Release from the distortions of the vices freed the Christians there to see creation (including other people) as a reflection of the Creator, transparent to his glory. That was the second stage. Finally, communing intimately and directly with God himself—unhindered and unmediated—was the goal, or last stage. They called it “peace” and “pure prayer” (hēsychia in Greek). We, like the early desert mothers and fathers, face the spiritual dangers of falling too much in love with the world and with ourselves and of failing to yearn enough for a life of delight in the Lord. Therefore, the practices of detachment from our disordered loves typically come first. Facing up to our vices, however, must always be embedded in this larger, life-giving program of spiritual formation, motivated by a desire for the God who calls us his own and draws us to himself in an embrace of love.

Know that your striving is not the solution. His grace will make a way for you. This book invites you to start that journey toward a closer relationship with him, confident that the God who began a good work in you will bring it to completion, for your good and for his glory.

FURTHER REFLECTION

Return to the tree image of the vices. Can you name how each one has its roots in pride? Which vice(s) did the previous chapters expose in your life? Can you identify its fruit?

Vices are habits of the heart and mind that shape our desires and our behavior. How would you define a spiritual discipline? Which disciplines are most familiar to you?

How do the disciplines forge a middle way between self-help (“works righteousness”) and religious complacency (“cheap grace”)? Which extreme is a greater danger for you?

FURTHER READING

John Ortberg, The Life You’ve Always Wanted: Spiritual Disciplines for Ordinary People, expanded ed. (Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 2002).

James Bryan Smith, The Good and Beautiful Community (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2010).

———, The Good and Beautiful God (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2009).

———, The Good and Beautiful Life (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2009).

c18Y

Epilogue

Greed, gluttony, lust, envy, [and] pride are no more than sad efforts to fill the empty place where love belongs, and anger and sloth [are] just two things that may happen when you find that not even all seven of them at their deadliest ever can.

—Frederick Buechner, Whistling in the Dark

Imagine for a moment that you have died. Your friends and family gather to grieve their loss and to remember you. What conversations would they have about you? What sorts of memories of you would they share with each other? What sort of person would they describe if they gave your eulogy?

Funerals are one of the few places where we still pause to contemplate a human life taken as a whole and try to sum up a person’s character. At milestones and celebrations such as retirements and graduations, we typically celebrate someone’s specific accomplishments or achievements. But that is different from memorializing someone’s character. The real question at a funeral is not “Has this friend or family member been successful at some great task?” or “What recognizable milestones or markers of success has he or she reached?” Rather, we ask, “Who was this person?” and “How would we characterize his or her life?”

It might be a worthwhile exercise to spend ten minutes trying to write down the speech you think a loved one might write about you if you died today. What sorts of character traits would they mention? What traits would they know about but politely not mention? Would there be a dominant theme in discussions about what sort of person you were among colleagues, church members, and family? Would they mention qualities like integrity, a good sense of humor, generosity, kindness, or perseverance? Would your irritability or stubbornness or impulsiveness be part of their conversation? What stories from your life would best illustrate those telling moments that revealed who you were, at your best and at your worst?

I regularly assign this exercise to my philosophy students. (In fact, I find it helpful to do it myself, year after year.) After they jot down a sketch of the speech, I ask them to write a second speech—the speech they wish someone could have given at their funeral, a speech about the person they aspire to be but have not yet become. What ugly qualities of character do you wish you’d overcome or put behind you? What character traits would you want in the epitaph on your gravestone if you had more time or a chance to do it over again?

If you are anything like me, you will quickly discover a rather unhappy gap in the content of those two speeches—the one that would in fact be given and the one I wish someone could have given. This gap is simply an admission of the difference in character between the person I am now and the person I wish yet to become. It offers us a place to begin reflecting about ourselves and then living into real change.

The memento mori exercise of meditating on our death prompts us to look back on the past and honestly assess who we are and where we have been. However, such reflections are meant to serve not as an endpoint but as a starting point. The desert fathers and mothers used this exercise in two ways. First, it prompted confession of and contrition for vice—part of the process of relinquishing the old self and its habits. Second, as an exercise in self-examination, it prepared them to look ahead, with intentionality and hope, to what they could and would become—by prayerfully living into the habits of the new, regenerated self. Following their example, we need not fall into regretful rumination or narcissistic navel-gazing. Rather, we can use what we see to begin the project of living more fully into Christlike character, starting today.

This book presents the tree of capital vices—each vice rooted in pride and growing branches of further vice and sin—as a helpful tool for engaging in this type of reflection. These seven vices, canvassed in the previous chapters, name perennial areas of human weakness and typical displays of pride’s provide-your-own-happiness program. When we study the vices, we thus study ourselves. When you look closely in that mirror, what do you see? And what does seeing yourself more clearly make you long to become?

Like Christian thinkers long ago, I believe that examining the vices’ deformations of our character can and should move us forward, in a more clear-sighted way, toward being people of virtuous character, people whose lives are well lived, people who are Christlike. Nevertheless, you may find yourself first falling on your face at the foot of the cross. (Did you read each chapter with a sinking feeling that you had that vice too? Imagine what it felt like to write the book!) Take heart: God does not leave us on our own when we find our hearts and lives entrenched in vices. In the Christian tradition, the transformation we need is not powered by human aspirations but by the Holy Spirit. At the same time, neither is leaning on the Spirit a license to drift along or do nothing. We are encouraged to be intentional, reflective, strategic, specific, and energetic about moving with the Spirit’s formative work. Like Augustine, when we look back on the way the vices disorder our lives, we are moved to pray for the future: “Order love within me.”1 The vices, their offspring, and the remedies traditionally suggested for them give us the language to identify and track the disordering of our desires that we must, with God’s help, actively resist. Discipleship takes graced, Spirit-empowered discipline to straighten what is bent, retrain and strengthen our capacities, and loosen the bonds that constrain us. Graced discipline bears fruit in the beauty of Christlike virtue.

In this study of the vices, one theme kept rising to the surface, confirming the pastoral instincts and Augustinian theology of Gregory the Great: pride is the root of the seven capital vices. I did not devote a separate chapter in this book to the vice of pride, because every chapter in this book has to do with pride.2

When we had our backyard maple tree taken down, the tree-removal crew started with the uppermost outer branches, lopping off more and more until they got to the biggest limbs. Then they took down the main trunk piece by piece. As anyone who’s ever had a tree removed knows, however, you can chop off as many branches of the tree as you like, but eventually you have to dig it out roots and all, or the stump will relentlessly send out new shoots and grow new branches. The roots buried below the ground keep feeding the tree and giving it life. In the same way, pride feeds the other seven capital vices.

Pride can reveal itself in many guises—we have identified only seven common ones here. When we carefully examine each of the vices, we eventually unearth the same familiar, prideful pattern: a quest to provide happiness for ourselves through whatever God-substitute we choose—pleasure, approval, wealth, worth, power, or status. We are not willing to let God be in control, so we refuse to keep these goods in their place and accept them as gifts from his hand.

We readily recognize pride in its arrogant forms: the person who resists submitting to God because he thinks he can handle things just fine on his own, the one who snubs advice and counsel because she knows best what is good for herself, and those who shun dependence on anyone else as unnecessary weakness. This arrogant form of pride can show itself in vicious responses like an avaricious desire for self-provision and control, or a wrathful desire to avenge ourselves on our own terms.3

We should also be aware, however, of the way fear can drive us into vice. When we don’t trust God’s provision or control, we might be tempted to seek happiness in safer, more secure and self-sufficient ways, or we might anxiously protect ourselves when we feel our lack of power. Like my pusillanimity, each vice can therefore also show us compensating for our perceived vulnerabilities with an attempt to take control.4

When we are afraid we won’t get what we need, or when we worry that we won’t have enough, we clutch our things tightly and keep wanting more. This is the vice of avarice at work. When we are afraid that justice won’t be served or that we won’t get our just deserts unless we take charge of making things right, the vice of wrath seeths within. When we are afraid that we will not be accepted by others or be able to live up to their expectations, and hide behind a false reputation, the vice of vainglory has captivated us. When we are afraid we are not worth anything unless we are better than others, and our insecurities lead us to eye their downfall with relief, the vice of envy has marked us with its malice. When we are afraid we will always feel empty and so choose to fill ourselves with pleasures that satisfy only for a moment, our hungry hearts have swallowed the vice of gluttony’s deceptively sweet promises. When we are afraid we are unlovable and compensate by using people to gratify ourselves without the risk of giving ourselves in return, this is lust’s haunting handiwork. When we are afraid that commitments of love will cost us too much—and thus we hold everyone, even God, at arm’s length in indifference—the vice of acedia has closed off our hearts.

In the mirror of such reflections, we can see the sad, dark truth about ourselves: the tree of vices, rooted in pride, continues to live and grow and thrive in human nature in many malignant forms. The more we understand the dynamics of sin and the deep network of its combined forces in us, however, the more amazing we will find the grace and power God promises to help us change. The Christian tradition bears centuries-long witness to the hope and promise of our transformation from vice to virtue. It further proves a venerable guide to the ways and means of engaging in this difficult but fruitful process. Although we find ourselves separated by many years from the counsel of the desert hermits and the contemplation of medieval theologians, we can still find much of their witness and wisdom compelling today.

We have just looked backward—to imagine our death and the portrait of our character that might be offered at our funeral. Now we turn forward—to imagine our reformation and the road that might lead us into the future. It’s a journey for which we have a map, traveling companions, and well-seasoned guides. “To flee vice is the beginning of virtue,” said Horace.5 And virtue’s ending?

In flesh’s solitude I count it blest

That only you, my Lord, can see my heart

With passion’s darkness tearing it apart

With storms of self, and tempests of unrest.

But your love breaks through blackness, bursts with light;

We separate ourselves, but you rebind

In Dayspring all our fragments; body, mind,

And spirit join, unite against the night.

Healed by your love, corruption and decay

Are turned, and whole, we greet the light of day.6

FURTHER REFLECTION

Take some time to practice the memento mori (“remembrance of your death”) exercise described above. Use the language of the virtues and vices to articulate patterns in your life and aspects of your character. Journal your thoughts. Return to this exercise and the next one once a year (on New Year’s Eve, for example) to mark the ways God is at work reshaping your character.

Consider the spiritual disciplines discussed in this book. Commit to one new way of intentionally opening your life to the Spirit’s work. Or, to go deeper, investigate making a “rule of life.”

A SHORT LIST 
FOR FURTHER READING7

Primary Sources from the Virtue Tradition

Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics, trans. T. Irwin (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1999).

Augustine, Confessions, trans. Henry Chadwick (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991).

John Cassian, The Institutes of the Monastic Life, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000).

Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003).

The Sayings of the Fathers: The Alphabetical Collection, trans. Benedicta Ward, SLG (Kalamazoo, MI: Cistercian Publications/Liturgical Press, 1975).

Thomas Aquinas, On Evil (The Disputed Questions on Evil), qq. VIII–XV, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003).

———, Summa theologiae, part II-II [on the virtues and vices], trans. Fathers of the English Dominican Province (New York: Benziger Brothers, 1948; repr., Westminster, MD: Christian Classics, 1981).

Secondary Sources on Virtue

Julia Annas, Intelligent Virtue (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011).

Michael Austin and R. Douglas Geivett, eds., Being Good: Christian Virtues for Everyday Life (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2012).

Josef Pieper, The Four Cardinal Virtues (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1966).

Robert C. Roberts, Spiritual Emotions: A Psychology of Christian Virtues (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2007).

Secondary Sources on Spiritual Formation

Ruth Haley Barton, Sacred Rhythms: Arranging Our Lives for Spiritual Transformation (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2006).

Adele Ahlberg Calhoun, The Spiritual Disciplines Handbook (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2005).

Richard Foster, Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth, anniversary ed. (San Francisco: HarperOne, 2018).

James Bryan Smith, The Good and Beautiful Community: Following the Spirit, Extending Grace, Demonstrating Love (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2009).

———, The Good and Beautiful God: Falling in Love with the God Jesus Knows (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2009).

———, The Good and Beautiful Life: Putting on the Character of Christ (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2009).

Dallas Willard, The Divine Conspiracy (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1998).

———, The Spirit of the Disciplines (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1990).

———, Renovation of the Heart (Colorado Springs: NavPress, 2002).

c1B5

Notes

Chapter 1 Why Study the Vices?

1. This story first appeared in my “Aquinas’s Virtues of Acknowledged Dependence: A New Measure of Greatness,” Faith and Philosophy 21, no. 1 (April 2004): 214–15.
2. N. T. Wright notes that God’s most frequent command is “Don’t be afraid.” N. T. Wright, Following Jesus: Biblical Reflections on Discipleship (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1994), 66.
3. James Stalker, The Seven Deadly Sins and the Seven Cardinal Virtues (New York: American Tract Society, 1901–2; repr., Colorado Springs: NavPress, 1998), 81. Stalker focuses his gluttony chapter on the sin of drunkenness instead.
4.Francine Prose, Gluttony: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York: New York Public Library/Oxford University Press, 2003), 85–86.
5. Robert Solomon, ed., Wicked Pleasures: Meditations on the Seven “Deadly” Sins (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 1999), 2–3.
6. See, for example, the work of philosopher Aaron Ben Ze’ev (cited in chap. 4, n. 30) and management advice from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, such as “Can Envy Be a Virtue? Taming the Green-Eyed Monster at Work,” June 10, 2014, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/can-envy-virtue-taming-green-eyed-monster-work/.
7. Michael Eric Dyson, Pride: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York: New York Public Library/Oxford University Press, 2006).
8. Wendy Wasserstein, Sloth: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York: New York Public Library/Oxford University Press, 2005), xiii.
9. Martin Marty, “Glittering Vices,” Christian Century, April 5, 2003, 47.
10. Joel Frohlich, “Down with the Larks: On the Virtues of Sleeping Like a Sloth,” Aeon, July 27, 2018, https://aeon.co/ideas/down-with-the-larks-on-the-virtues-of-sleeping-like-a-sloth.
11. Simon Blackburn, Lust: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York: New York Public Library/Oxford University Press, 2004), 133. The “bad philosophy and ideology” Blackburn disparages references his larger discussion in chap. 5, “The Christian Panic.”
12. Solomon Schimmel, The Seven Deadly Sins: Jewish, Christian, and Classical Reflections on Human Psychology (New York: Free Press, 1992; repr., New York: Oxford University Press, 1997), 125–28. In general, Schimmel takes the moral tradition seriously. The lust chapter is a notable exception.
13. Psychological counseling is valuable and often necessary. In order to avoid falsely burdening people who are already struggling, I eschew the use of sin, vice, guilt, and blame language for conditions primarily related to mental illness rather than moral responsibility. However, it is equally unhelpful to reduce spiritual maladies to psychological problems, since this fails to diagnose the root of the problem or offer the right remedies. Using therapeutic models to excuse people from responsibility or deflate the significance of the problem can also serve (either implicitly or explicitly) to validate desires that need to be disciplined or reordered. Further, the early Christian tradition integrated theological, psychological, and spiritual matters (unlike current academic and professional divisions), which makes it difficult to draw these boundaries accurately as we study their work in our own context. See Dennis Okholm, Dangerous Passions, Deadly Sins: Learning from the Psychology of Ancient Monks (Grand Rapids: Brazos, 2014) for a better approach.
14. Evelyn Waugh, “Sloth,” in The Seven Deadly Sins (London: Sunday Times Publications, 1962; repr., Pleasantville, NY: Akadine, 2002), 57.
15. “You Can Have It All! Seven Campaigns for Deadly Sin,” Harper’s, November 1987, 43–50.
16. Adam Shannon, “Seven Deadly Sins,” www.deadlysins.com.
17. Christiann MacAuley, “The Seven Deadly Keys,” Stickycomics.com, Oct. 11, 2011, https://www.stickycomics.com/7-deadly-keys/.
18. Acting on a virtue is not mechanical or unthinking, as in the common sense of the English word “habitual.” Virtues dispose us to perform good human (i.e., voluntary) acts.
19. Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics 2.6 (1106a15–25), trans. T. Irwin (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1999).
20. Alasdair MacIntyre, After Virtue, 2nd ed. (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1984), 188.
21. If Jane consistently heeds her conscience and habitually engages in loving and faithful behaviors toward her husband, she would mature from her current state of conflicted self-control to a state of virtuous fidelity.
22. So Josef Pieper argues for the importance of virtue: “Because it is not always the same thing when two people do the same thing, a moral doctrine which regards only the actions of a man but not his being, is always in danger of seeing only the sameness . . . of the actions, and missing important differences . . . at a greater depth.” Josef Pieper, The Four Cardinal Virtues (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1966), 163.
23. Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics 2.4 (1105b5–10).
24. Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics 7.10 (1152a30–35).
25. Howard Fineman, “The Virtuecrats,” Newsweek, June 13, 1994, 28–40.
26. Christopher Petersen and Martin Seligman, Character Strengths and Virtues (New York: Oxford University Press; Washington, DC: American Psychological Association, 2004), 29–30.
27. Exemplars also help us define virtues. See Linda Zagzebski, “Exemplarist Virtue Theory” (Gifford Lectures, University of St. Andrews, 2015), https://www.giffordlectures.org/lectures/exemplarist-virtue-theory.
28. Aquinas, prologue to Summa theologiae III, trans. Fathers of the English Dominican Province (New York: Benziger Brothers, 1948; repr., Westminster, MD: Christian Classics, 1981); hereafter abbreviated ST. This quotation is my own translation, with emphasis added.
29. Augustine (AD 354–430) and Aquinas (AD 1224/25–74) had to answer this question when appropriating Greek and Roman accounts of virtue. See, for example, my “Power Made Perfect in Weakness: Aquinas’s Transformation of the Virtue of Courage,” Medieval Philosophy and Theology 11 (2003): 147–80, and Aquinas’s Ethics (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 2009), chaps. 7–9.
30. Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, directed by Gore Verbinski (Burbank, CA: Walt Disney, Jerry Bruckheimer Films, 2003) DVD.
31. For example, the desert father Evagrius of Pontus also cites Eph. 4:22–24 in On Thoughts 3 and 39, in Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003).
32. See, for example, Augustine, On the Morals of the Catholic Church against the Manichees 15.25. See also ST II-II 23.
33. C. S. Lewis, The Weight of Glory (New York: HarperCollins, 2001), 26.
34. The seven terraces described in Dante’s Purgatorio (cantos 9–27) offer remedial punishments for each of the seven deadly sins. The punishments have the effect of lifting the weight of sin (e.g., 12.115–26). Similarly, in Confessions (e.g., 2.2), Augustine says God used sin’s consequences as punishment to show him their emptiness and lead him to freedom from those vices (8.12–9.1).

Chapter 2 Gifts from the Desert

1. G. K. Chesterton, The Defendant, ed. Dale Ahlquist (London: R. Brimley Johnson, 1902; repr., Mineola, NY: Dover, 2012), 60.
2. Henry Fairlie, The Seven Deadly Sins Today (Washington, DC: New Republic, 1978; repr., Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1979), viii.
3. See William White, Fatal Attractions (Nashville: Abingdon, 1992); Billy Graham, The Seven Deadly Sins (Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1955); Anthony Campolo, Seven Deadly Sins (Wheaton, IL: Victor Books, 1987); and, with the exception of a brief introduction, Donald Capps, Deadly Sins and Saving Virtues (Philadelphia: Fortress, 1987). Os Guiness’s Steering through Chaos: Virtue and Vice in an Age of Moral Confusion (Colorado Springs: NavPress, 2000) is a notable exception.
4. N. T. Wright, Following Jesus: Christian Reflections on Discipleship, 2nd ed. (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1994), 89.
5. Augustine, On the Morals of the Catholic Church against the Manichees 15.25, as quoted in Servais Pinckaers, Morality: The Catholic View, trans. Michael Sherwin (South Bend, IN: St. Augustine’s Press, 2001).
6. For a brief history, see Richard Newhauser, introduction to In the Garden of Evil: The Vices and Culture in the Middle Ages (Toronto: Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, 2005).
7. Laura Swan, in The Forgotten Desert Mothers: Lives, Sayings, and Stories from Early Christian Women (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 2001), notes that women likely outnumbered men two-to-one in the desert. Their few preserved sayings appear in secondhand reports from later writers. See also Pseudo-Athanasius, The Life of Blessed Syncletica, trans. Elizabeth Bryson Bongie (Toronto: Peregrina, 1995).
8. Evagrius, On Thoughts 1, in Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003); Cassian, Conferences 5.6, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 57 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 1999).
9. “For Evagrius the terms ‘thoughts’ (logismoi) and ‘fantasies’ (phantasiai) took on a strongly negative cast, with the latter term bearing much of its modern psychological connotation. Behind each thought there stood a demon at work, to the extent that Evagrius would frequently use the terms ‘thought’, ‘demon’, and ‘evil spirit’ interchangeably” (Sinkewicz, introduction to Evagrius of Pontus, xxv; see also xxv–vi). See also Columba Stewart, OSB, “Evagrius Ponticus and the Eight Generic Logismoi,” in Newhauser, In the Garden of Evil.
10. Evagrius, Praktikos 6, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus. Evagrius is also a source for the enneagram (a list of nine, including fear and deceit as additional compulsions). In Greek, the vices are gastrimargia, porneia, orgē, lupē, akēdia, kenodoxia, hyperēphania (or hubris), and phthonos (envy, a later addition).
11. The acronym of Latin names was GLAIT(I)AVS—gula, luxuria, avaritia, ira, tristitia (invidia, a later addition to the list), acedia, vana gloria, and superbia. For more on this list’s history, see Carole Straw, “Gregory, Cassian, and the Cardinal Vices,” in Newhauser, In the Garden of Evil, 38; and Richard Newhauser, The Treatise on Vices and Virtues in Latin and in the Vernacular (Turnhout, Belgium: Brepols, 1993), chap. 6.
12. Cassian presents them as a pedagogical progression: novices find gluttony and lust—vices focused on bodily pleasures—comparatively easier to fight than vainglory and pride, which count as spiritual, easily hidden vices. In contrast, Gregory presents them as a degenerative series, beginning with pride: once we are separated from God through prideful disobedience, we fall from grace into a less and less human state, ending with gluttony. See Straw, “Gregory, Cassian, and the Cardinal Vices,” in Newhauser, In the Garden of Evil. Aquinas does not offer a serial account.
13. Arguably, he had one, based partly on his Platonic psychology. See William Harmless, SJ, Desert Christians: An Introduction to the Literature of Early Christian Monasticism (New York: Oxford University Press, 2004). Sinkewicz writes, “[Evagrius] is not rigid about his schema, because he realizes that there are variations in the ascetic experience of different individuals and personalities. . . . The Evagrian schematic order [of thoughts] is not intended to be rigidly applied to everyone’s ascetic experience, even though Evagrius does maintain that the schema does have a general validity that is useful in discerning the workings of the thoughts.” Sinkewicz, introduction to On the Eight Thoughts, in Evagrius of Pontus, 71.
14. Evagrius, Praktikos 6.12.
15. Cassian, The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000).
16. Cassian was the first to label these “vices”—and specifically, principia vitia.
17. Quoted by Aquinas (in reverse order) in ST II-II 161.6. See also The Rule of St. Benedict, chap. 7.
18. Cassian, Institutes 11.7.
19. Sadness or dejection (tristitia in Gregory’s Moralia) was a technical term for the sorrow that followed incomplete interior relinquishment of a monk’s or nun’s former worldly life and all its pleasures and treasures. It should not be confused with what is now called clinical depression, or with grief or sadness in general.
20. Gregory, Moralia on Job 31.45.87–88, Patrologia Latina 76:0620C–0621D.
21. For a quick overview of the history, see Paul Jordan-Smith, “Seven and More Deadly Sins,” Parabola 10, no. 4 (1985): 34–45. Cassian describes the monk as contending in the arena against the vices, as an athlete of Christ (see, e.g., Institutes 5.17–18).
22. See Leonard E. Boyle, OP, “The Setting of the Summa theologiae of St. Thomas—Revisited,” in The Ethics of Aquinas, ed. Stephen J. Pope (Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press, 2002), 10–11.
23. This was in the 1587 edition; the original was in circulation by the mid-thirteenth century.
24. My source for Peraldus is Siegfried Wenzel, The Sin of Sloth: Acedia in Medieval Thought and Literature (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1967), 75–77.
25. Cassian, Conferences 5.16–19.
26. See Servais Pinckaers, The Sources of Christian Ethics (Washington, DC: Catholic University of America Press, 1995).
27. Abuses within penitential practices were no doubt a major obstacle here.
28. See, for example, Richard Foster, Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth, anniversary ed. (San Francisco: HarperOne, 2018); Dallas Willard, The Spirit of the Disciplines: Understanding How God Changes Lives (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1990); Dallas Willard, Renovation of the Heart: Putting on the Character of Christ (Colorado Springs: NavPress, 2002).
29. “All grace is from above, which shows even to sinners the schemes of the deceivers and which also offers assurance, saying, ‘For what do you have that you did not receive’ (1 Cor 4:7), so that in having received, on the one hand, we may give thanks to the one who granted the gift, and in having possession, on the other hand, we may not attribute to ourselves any boasting of honor, as though denying the gift” (Evagrius, prologue to On the Vices, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus). Cassian concurs:

Wherefore it is well for us both to be certified by actual experience, and also to be instructed by countless passages of Scripture, that we cannot possibly overcome such mighty foes in our own strength, and unless supported by the aid of God alone; and that we ought always to refer the whole of our victory each day to God Himself . . . I ask what could be said clearer in opposition to that impious notion and impertinence of ours, in which we want to ascribe everything that we do to our own free will and our own exertions? (Conferences 5.15)

30. Evagrius, Eulogios 14, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus. See also Cassian, Institutes 12.4–5.
31. Willard, Spirit of the Disciplines, 4–5.
32. N. T. Wright makes the same point in the opening chapter of After You Believe: Why Christian Character Matters (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 2012).
33. David Hume, Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals 6.1, 3rd ed., ed. P. H. Nidditch (Oxford: Clarendon, 1975), 199.
34. Hume, Enquiry 8, 216.
35. David Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature 2.8.7, ed. David F. Norton and Mary J. Norton (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000).
36. Henry Ford, quoted in Robert McCracken, What Is Sin? What Is Virtue? (New York: Harper & Row, 1966), 29.
37. William H. Gass, “Lust,” in Wicked Pleasures: Meditations on the Seven “Deadly” Sins, ed. Robert Solomon (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 1999), 133–35.
38. See Solomon, introduction to Wicked Pleasures. See also J. Shklar, Ordinary Vices (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984).
39. The British Library’s illuminated manuscripts include several vice trees (e.g., https://www.bl.uk/catalogues/illuminatedmanuscripts/ILLUMIN.ASP?Size=mid&IllID=7111) and virtue trees (e.g., https://www.bl.uk/catalogues/illuminatedmanuscripts/ILLUMIN.ASP?Size=mid&IllID=7112). Adam and Eve’s prideful “no” of disobedience in the garden of Eden roots the vice tree, while the virgin Mary’s humble “yes” of obedience at the annunciation roots the virtue tree. “Bearing good fruit” and being “rooted” in love are scriptural metaphors (see, e.g., Ps. 1; John 15:1–7; Gal. 5:22–23; Phil. 1:11; Col. 2:7). Pride can also be cast as a disordered love of the self in the Augustinian tradition.
40. Cassian, Conferences 5.10.
41. Pride thus counts as the first sin and the origin of all others in two senses: (1) it is temporally first in human history, and (2) it is a continuing source of other sins as their root or first principle.
42. Peraldus lists sixteen “vices belonging to accidia” in no fewer than twenty-seven chapters on sloth (from the 1587 edition). See Wenzel, Sin of Sloth, 76.
43. Cassian, Conferences 5.16.
44. Evagrius, Praktikos 6.
45. Cassian, Conferences 5.2.
46. Cassian makes this claim (Institutes 12.6.1), so Augustine and Gregory cannot get all the credit. All three name pride as the original sin of Adam and Eve.
47. Although Evagrius and Cassian included both, Gregory’s list includes sadness (tristitia), not sloth. Aquinas’s list includes sloth, not sadness; however, he defines sloth as a kind of “sorrow.” See chap. 5 below, “Sloth (Acedia),” nn. 17–18 in particular.
48. Prudentius’s Psychomachia (likely written in the fourth century) is interesting for its blending of Christian virtues with Roman militaristic ideals. Alternately, spiritual counsel might commend resisting the vices not with virtues but with spiritual disciplines like fasting, psalmody, prayer, and vigils, as Evagrius suggests in his Praktikos. His Antirhetikkus (contemporary title: Talking Back) gives prompts from Scripture to use to “talk back” to the demons when they make a “suggestion,” following Christ’s example in his wilderness temptations.
49. The seven corporal works of mercy are these: to feed the hungry, to give drink to the thirsty, to clothe the naked, to give shelter to travelers, to visit the sick, to visit the imprisoned, and to bury the dead. The seven spiritual works of mercy are as follows: to instruct the ignorant, to counsel the doubtful, to admonish sinners, to bear patiently those who wrong us, to forgive offenses, to comfort the afflicted, and to pray for the living and the dead.
50. The theological virtues (faith, hope, and love) are exceptions to this rule, since Aquinas holds that there is no such thing as believing in, hoping in, or loving God too much.
51. Thomas Aquinas, Disputed Questions on Evil, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003).
52. Richard Foster, Money, Sex, and Power (San Francisco: Harper & Row, 1985).
53. ST I-II 84.3–4.
54. Barbara Brown Taylor, Home by Another Way (Cambridge, MA: Cowley, 1999), 67.
55. Augustine, Confessions 1.20, trans. R. L. Pine-Coffin (London: Penguin, 1961).
56. Augustine, Confessions 2.6, trans. Henry Chadwick (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991): “Pride imitates what is lofty; but you alone are God most high above all things. . . . Curiosity appears to be a zeal for knowledge; yet you supremely know all. . . . Idleness appears as desire for a quiet life; yet can rest be assured apart from the Lord? Luxury wants to be called abundance and satiety; but you are fullness and the inexhaustible treasure of incorruptible pleasure. . . . Avarice wishes to have large possessions; you possess everything. Envy contends about excellence; but what is more excellent than you? Anger seeks revenge; who avenges with greater justice than you?”
57. See Boyle, “Setting of the Summa theologiae,” in Pope, Ethics of Aquinas, 2.
58. Cassian, Institutes 11.17.

Chapter 3 Vainglory

1. Thomas Aquinas, Disputed Questions on Evil 9.1 ad 3 and 9.2 ad 9, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003). Elsewhere he notes that our own glory may not be sought as an end in itself (ST II-II 132.1 ad 3).
2. William Ian Miller, Faking It (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2003), 96–97.
3. Augustine, Confessions 2.9, trans. Henry Chadwick (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991).
4. Augustine, Confessions 1.18.
5. In all vainglory’s forms, “[I] care less that I am a moral failure than that I may be a social failure.” See Miller, Faking It, 3.
6. Kheper Games, Inc., 2003.
7. ST II-II 162.8 ad 2; 132.4. What the vainglorious person or her audience perceives or counts as an excellence may not be actually excellent (ST II-II 132.3). The vices characteristically distort our vision of ourselves and the objects of our love.
8. ST II-II 132.4. On whether the desire of glory is a sin, see ST II-II 132.1.
9. See ST II-II 130–32.
10. ST II-II 132.4 ad 2.
11. ST II-II 132; Aquinas, On Evil 9.
12. “From Now On,” lyrics by Justin Paul and Benj Pasek, on The Greatest Showman (Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, Kobalt Music Publishing Ltd., Fox Music, Inc., 2017).
13. Augustine, Confessions 2.3.
14. It was well known to ancient Greek and Roman cultures. Aquinas must make major modifications to this Aristotelian virtue, since all true and perfect virtue rests on power we receive only by grace (ST II-II 23.7). See also Jennifer Herdt, Putting on Virtue: The Legacy of the Splendid Vices (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2008), chap. 3.
15. Beauty and glory are related but not identical, although I do not have the space to defend that claim here.
16. John D. Witvliet offers an insightful discussion of these difficulties in “The Mysteries of Liturgical Sincerity,” Worship 92 (May 2018): 196–203.
17. Cassian, The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices 11.16, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000).
18. ST II-II 132.3; Aquinas, On Evil 9.1.
19. Augustine, Confessions 2.
20. Augustine, City of God 5.12, trans. Marcus Dods (New York: Modern Library, 1950).
21. Augustine, City of God 14.28.
22. Augustine, City of God 14.28.
23. ST II-II 132.2.
24. As British writer Terry Pratchett once wrote, “Always remember . . . the crowd that applauds your coronation is the same crowd that will applaud your beheading. People like a show.” Terry Pratchett, Going Postal (New York: HarperCollins, 2004), 302.
25. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 7.21, in Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003).
26. Evagrius, Eulogios 14, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus.
27. Bradford Veley (Cartoonstock, 2010).
28. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 7.21.
29. Carly Simon, “You’re So Vain” (Elektra Records, 1972). Ironically, the song itself won great acclaim.
30. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 28.
31. Cassian, Institutes 11.6.
32. Cassian, Institutes 11.5.
33. Evagrius, Praktikos 7.30.
34. Miller, Faking It, 8.
35. See Richard Foster, The Freedom of Simplicity: Finding Harmony in a Complex World, rev. ed. (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 2005); Richard Foster, Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth, anniversary ed. (San Francisco: HarperOne, 2018), chap. 6; Stanley Hauerwas, The Character of Virtue (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2018), 125–33.
36. Westminster Shorter Catechism, q. 1.
37. ST II-II 132.4.
38. Neglected children, people disregarded because of disabilities, and the systemic harms of racism and sexism show us the damage that lack of recognition and affirmation do to human beings. It is painful, and rightly so, for the good of our person (as well as our abilities and gifts) to be invisible to others.
39. Augustine, Confessions 1.1. Translation altered for inclusiveness. Note: Augustine references Ps. 146:5, which is Ps. 147:5 in contemporary translations.
40. Affirming our worth should be distinguished from affirming the goodness of our accomplishments. I discuss the “recognition” and “appraisal” distinction in Vainglory: The Forgotten Vice (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2014), 23–24.
41. Foster, Freedom of Simplicity, 67–68 and 118: “To be silent is probably the best way to deal with self-love.”
42. See Ruth Haley Barton, Invitation to Solitude and Silence (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2010); Sacred Rhythms: Arranging Our Lives for Spiritual Transformation (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2006), chap. 2; Foster, Celebration of Discipline, chap. 7; and Henri Nouwen, The Way of the Heart: Connecting with God through Prayer, Wisdom, and Silence (New York: Seabury, 1981; repr., New York: Ballantine, 2003).
43. Foster, Freedom of Simplicity, 12.
44. Foster, Freedom of Simplicity, 108.
45. Anne Lamott, Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life (New York: Pantheon, 1994), 116.
46. Cassian, Institutes 11.19.
47. Foster, Freedom of Simplicity, 116–17.
48. Augustine, Sermon 339:1–4, in The Works of Saint Augustine: A Translation for the 21st Century, pt. 3, vol. 9, trans. Edmund Hill (Hyde Park, NY: New City Press, 1994), 279.
49. See my Vainglory, 101–6, 125–26, where I treat these themes in more detail; see also my “The Promise and Pitfalls of Glory,” in The Cambridge Critical Guide to Aquinas’s Disputed Questions on Evil, ed. M. Dougherty (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2015).
50. The Sayings of the Fathers, in Western Asceticism, ed. Owen Chadwick, Library of Christian Classics 12 (Philadelphia, PA: Westminster, 1958), 49.

Chapter 4 Envy

1. Amadeus, directed by Milos Forman (1984; Burbank, CA: Warner Home Video, 1997), DVD.
2. Victor Hugo, “Envy and Avarice,” in Selections, Chiefly Lyrical, from the Poetical Works of Victor Hugo (London: George Bell & Sons, 1911), 4–6.
3. If we perniciously think of people as ownable, like property, then this sense of covetousness extends to coveting people. So the tenth commandment forbids coveting a neighbor’s wife, manservant, or maidservant.
4. For example, one psychological study offered evidence of women rating the same man more attractive when he was shown standing next to a luxury car rather than an economy vehicle. See Gad Saad, “Men: You’re Only as Good-Looking as the Car That You’re Driving,” Homo Consumericus (blog), Psychology Today, December 6, 2010, https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/homo-consumericus/201012/men-you-re-only-good-looking-the-car-you-re-driving.
5. ST II-II 36.1.
6. ST II-II 36.1.
7. Francis Bacon, “Of Envy,” Essays of Francis Bacon, The Essays or Counsels, Civil and Moral, of Francis Ld. Verulam Viscount St. Albans, http://www.authorama.com/essays-of-francis-bacon-10.html.
8. Augustine, St. Augustine’s Prayer Book, rev. ed., ed. Rev. Loren Gavitt (West Park, NY: Holy Cross Publications, 1967), 117–18. Thanks to W. Jay Wood for this source.
9. Mean Girls, directed by Robert Luketic (Hollywood, CA: Paramount Pictures, 2004), DVD.
10. ST II-II 35.6 ad 3.
11. Joseph Epstein, Envy: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York: New York Public Library/Oxford University Press, 2003), 90.
12. Francoise de la Rochefoucauld, Reflections or Sentences and Moral Maxims (Paris: Claude Barbin, 1665), maxim 99.
13. Walker Percy, Lost in the Cosmos: The Last Self-Help Book (New York: Picador, 1983), 57, italics and underlining in the original.
14. William Langland, Piers Plowman: A Modern Verse Translation, trans. Peter Sutton (Jefferson, NC: McFarland, 2014), step 5, lines 90–120, p. 62.
15. For an excellent articulation of this point, see Gabriele Taylor, “Deadly Vices?,” in How Should One Live?, ed. Roger Crisp (Oxford: Clarendon, 1996), 157–72.
16. Quoted in John Bate, A Cyclopaedia of Illustrations of Moral and Religious Truths (1866; repr., London: Forgotten Books, 2017), 282.
17. Epstein, Envy, 22.
18. Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking: A Seeker’s ABC (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1993), 24.
19. The Incredibles, directed by Brad Bird (Emeryville, CA: Disney/Pixar, 2004), DVD.
20. Epstein, Envy, 34.
21. ST II-II 36.1.
22. Morrissey, “We Hate It When Our Friends Become Successful,” Your Arsenal (Sony, 1992).
23. ST II-II 36.1 ad 2.
24. Chariots of Fire, directed by Hugh Hudson (1981; Burbank, CA: Warner Home Video, 2005), DVD.
25. Thomas Williams, “Moral Vice, Cognitive Virtue: Jane Austen on Jealousy and Envy,” Philosophy and Literature 27 (2003): 223–30. The envier’s sense of what is justly “deserved” may be distorted, however.
26. Kent Dunnington calls this self the “ego ideal” in Humility, Pride, and Christian Virtue Theory (New York: Oxford University Press, 2018).
27. ST II-II 28.
28. Augustine, St. Augustine’s Prayer Book, 117.
29. See the introduction for a definition and theological evaluation of mortal or deadly sin.
30. Little Miss Sunshine, directed by Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris (Century City, CA: Twentieth Century Fox, 2006), DVD.
31. In particular, see Aaron Ben-Ze’ev, “Envy and Jealousy,” Canadian Journal of Philosophy 20, no. 4 (1990): 515; and “Envy and Pity,” International Philosophical Quarterly 33, no. 1 (1993): 18. Psychologist Melanie Klein makes similar claims about envy’s inevitability and ineradicability as a human impulse in Envy and Gratitude: A Study of Unconscious Sources (London: Routledge, 2001).
32. As quoted in the Encyclopedia Americana (New York: A. B. Lyon, 1918), 5:384.
33. Robert C. Roberts, Spirituality and Human Emotion (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1982), 69. See the updated chapter in Spiritual Emotions: A Psychology of Christian Virtues (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2007).
34. W. H. Auden, “Many Happy Returns,” in The Collected Poems of W. H. Auden (New York: Random House, 1945), 71.
35. Jean Vanier, Community and Growth (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 1989), 51.
36. Alasdair MacIntyre, After Virtue (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1981): “Internal goods are indeed the outcome of competition to excel, but it is a characteristic of them that their achievement is a good for the whole community who participate in the practice” (190–91). Robert M. Adams, A Theory of Virtue: Excellence in Being for the Good (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), chap. 6, describes them in terms of “common projects.”
37. See, e.g., M. Robert Mulholland Jr., The Deeper Journey (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2006), 65.
38. Dallas Willard briefly discusses the discipline of secrecy in connection with Jesus’s Sermon on the Mount in The Divine Conspiracy (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1998), 200–201; see also Adele Ahlberg Calhoun, The Spiritual Disciplines Handbook (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2005), 104–6.
39. Mother Teresa, “Nobel Lecture” (December 11, 1979), https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/peace/1979/teresa/lecture/.
40. George Herbert warns about envy: “Envie not greatnesse: for thou mak’st thereby / Thy self the worse, and so the distance greater. / Be not thine own worm.” He also envisions comparisons prompting something like zeal: “yet such jealousie, / As hurts not others, but may make thee better, / Is a good spurre.” “Church Porch,” stanza 44, in The Complete English Works (New York: Alfred Knopf/David Campbell, 1995), 16. For more on zeal, see David A. Horner and David R. Turner, “Zeal,” in Being Good: Christian Virtues for Everyday Life, ed. Michael Austin and R. Douglas Geivett (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2012), 72–103.
41. Roberts, Spiritual Emotions, argues that part of learning gratitude includes learning to thank God “above all” for his love made known to us in the work of Christ (133).
42. Buechner, Wishful Thinking, 102.

Chapter 5 Sloth (Acedia)

1. Leigh Rubin, “Rubes” (Creators Syndicate, 2003).
2. Evelyn Waugh, “Sloth,” in The Seven Deadly Sins (London: Sunday Times Publications, 1962; repr., Pleasantville, NY: Akadine, 2002), 57.
3. Wendy Wasserstein, Sloth: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York: New York Public Library/Oxford University Press, 2005).
4. Henry Ford, quoted in Robert McCracken, What Is Sin? What Is Virtue? (New York: Harper & Row, 1966), 29.
5. Thomas H. Benton, “The Top 5 Virtues of Successful Graduate Students,” Chronicle of Higher Education, September 5, 2003. See also Thomas H. Benton, “The 7 Deadly Sins of Students,” Chronicle of Higher Education, April 4, 2006.
6. Josef Pieper, On Hope (San Francisco: Ignatius, 1986), 54–55.
7. Pieper, On Hope, 55.
8. See, e.g., Cassian, The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices 10.8–13, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000).
9. The Latin acedia (sometimes accidie) is derived from the Greek term akēdia (ἀκηδία), which means “lack of care.”
10. Morton W. Bloomfield, The Seven Deadly Sins (Lansing: Michigan State University Press, 1967), 75; Siegfried Wenzel, The Sin of Sloth: Acedia in Medieval Thought and Literature (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1967), 10; Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003), 72.
11. Evagrius, Praktikos 6.12. Note: Evagrius references Ps. 90:6, which is Ps. 91:6 in contemporary English translations.
12. Evagrius, Praktikos 36.
13. Amma Theodora, quoted in Laura Swan, The Forgotten Desert Mothers: Lives, Sayings, and Stories from Early Christian Women (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 2001), 65.
14. Evagrius’s holistic approach to the human person and the desert fathers’ and mothers’ presentation of this and other vices blurs contemporary distinctions between emotional and spiritual life. See n. 17 below.
15. Cassian, Institutes 10.21; for a similar description, see Conferences 5.16, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 57 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 1999).
16. Cassian, Institutes 10.2. This extended description of acedia’s torment of the monk is as colorful as Evagrius’s.
17. Laura M. Lysen, in “Vicious Sorrow: The Roots of a ‘Spiritual Sin’ in the Summa theologiae,” Studies in Christian Ethics 30, no. 3 (2017): 329–47, characterizes acedia primarily as an emotion, but in the tradition, consent of the will is crucial to the characterization of acedia as a vice. Lysen correctly notes that acedia manifests itself as sorrow, but it would be a mistake to attribute sinfulness to emotions not informed by “reason’s consent” (Aquinas’s term, although the mortal-venial distinction is relevant here; see ST II–II 35.3). Evagrius agrees: “Sin for a monk is consent of the thought to the forbidden pleasure [or passion]” (Praktikos 75; see also 71–90). While Lysen, as well as Norris (see n. 20), tends to fuse acedia and depression, I maintain that the two should remain distinguished. See also n. 18.
18. Originally, acedia and tristitia (sorrow) were distinct vices. Cassian and Evagrius describe sorrow’s cause as insufficient renunciation of worldly goods, as required by desert religious commitments. This habitual sorrow produces resentment of their religious vocation: this is acedia. Gregory combined sorrow and acedia under the title tristitia. Aquinas instead defined acedia as a distinct kind of sorrow. My account of sloth, while based on Aquinas’s definition, preserves the early sorrow-over-renunciation dynamic, with excessive attachment to the “old self” making commitment to and joy in the “new self” difficult and distasteful.
19. ST II-II 35; Aquinas, Disputed Questions on Evil 11, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003).
20. Kathleen Norris, The Quotidian Mysteries: On Laundry, Liturgy, and Women’s Work (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 1998), 53; Kathleen Norris, Acedia and Me: Marriage, Monks, and a Writer’s Life (New York: Riverhead, 2008).
21. ST II-II 24.3.
22. Granting acedia’s emotional character, we still need to explain why we are morally responsible for it as a vice. Aquinas notes that emotions like grief can make us more susceptible to acedia (ST II-II 35.1).
23. Aquinas, On Evil 11.2 and ST II-II 35.3.
24. Hieronymus Bosch, Table of the Seven Deadly Sins (early sixteenth century), https://www.museodelprado.es/en/the-collection/art-work/table-of-the-seven-deadly-sins/3fc0a84e-d77d-4217-b960-8a34b8873b70; see also Pieter Bruegel the Elder, Sloth (Desidia), from the Series the Seven Deadly Sins (mid-sixteenth century), https://www.metmuseum.org/toah/works-of-art/26.72.34/.
25. “It cannot be said that sloth [acedia] is a particular vice insofar as it shuns spiritual good as toilsome or troublesome to the body or as a hindrance to bodily repose, for this would not make sloth distinct from the carnal vices, whereby we seek bodily comfort and pleasure” (ST II-II 35.2).
26. Spiritual formation literature calls this the “false self.”
27. Søren Kierkegaard, in The Sickness unto Death, trans. Howard V. Hong and Edna Hong (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1985), 67–74, describes this self as one who refuses, in defiance, to be itself because this would require acknowledging the self’s dependent relationship to God. If the refusal is less conscious, acedia is more akin to Kierkegaard’s despair of weakness (see esp. 55–56).
28. Groundhog Day, directed by Harold Ramis (1993; Culver City, CA, Sony Pictures, 2002), DVD. The film depicts a human–human relationship, not a God–human relationship.
29. Paul Wadell, Happiness and the Christian Moral Life (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2007).
30. Amma Theodora describes acedia as a kind of grief: “There is grief that is useful, and there is grief that is destructive. The first sort consists in weeping over one’s faults and weeping over the weakness of one’s neighbors, in order not to destroy one’s purpose, and attach oneself to the perfect good. But there is also a grief that comes from the enemy, full of mockery, which some call accidie. This spirit must be cast out, mainly by prayer and psalmody” (quoted in Swan, Forgotten Desert Mothers, 62).
31. The marriage/friendship analogy is apt because Aquinas defines the virtue of Christian love (caused by our participation in God’s nature) as a friendship (ST II–II 23.1).
32. Anne Lamott, Operating Instructions: A Journal of My Son’s First Year (New York: Ballantine, 1994), 96.
33. Pieper, On Hope, 56.
34. U2, “Walk On,” All That You Can’t Leave Behind (PolyGram Intl. Music Pub., 2000).
35. Although love of God and neighbor cannot be pulled apart, acedia strikes primarily at the source love—our love of God—and only secondarily branches out to indifference to neighbors. ST II–II 36.4; see also 25.1; 25.4.
36. Cassian, Institutes 10.5, emphasis added.
37. Cassian, Institutes 10.3.
38. Buechner, Wishful Thinking, 109–10.
39. Garret Keizer writes, “Dead men throw no fits, death hates resurrection. No one likes to be woken from a sound sleep. Where those afflicted by sloth can become most angry is when someone or something disturbs the tranquility of their sarcophagus.” Garret Keizer, The Enigma of Anger: Essays on a Sometimes Deadly Sin (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2002), 50.
40. Augustine, Confessions 1.1, trans. Henry Chadwick (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991). In the desert, this rest was known by the Greek word hēsychia. Sinkewicz, e.g., translates it “tranquility.”
41. Prior to the quotation in the text, Pascal says, “The only thing which consoles us for our miseries is diversion, and yet this is the greatest of our miseries. For it is this which principally hinders us from reflecting upon ourselves, and which makes us insensibly ruin ourselves.” Blaise Pascal, Pensées, trans. W. F. Trotter (New York: Dutton, 1958), 171.
42. Viktor Frankl, Man’s Search for Meaning (New York: Pocket Books, 1959), 129. Thinking of acedia as mere laziness occasions misdiagnosis of the vice’s true symptoms; see my “Sloth: Some Historical Reflections,” in Virtues and Their Vices, ed. Timpe and Boyd, 177–98; and Lauren Winner, “Sleep Therapy,” Books & Culture (January/February 2006): 7.
43. For more on Sabbath rest, “the gift we do not know how to receive” (x), see A. J. Swoboda, Subversive Sabbath: The Surprising Power of Rest in a Nonstop World (Grand Rapids: Brazos, 2018).
44. ST II-II 36.3.
45. Isaac Watts, “When I Survey the Wondrous Cross,” in The Psalter Hymnal (Grand Rapids: CRC Publications, 1987), #384.
46. Evagrius, Praktikos 6.28.
47. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 6.17, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus. See also Cassian, Institutes 10.25.
48. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 6.5.
49. David Brakke, Demons and the Making of a Monk (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2006), 66.
50. Evagatio mentis (wandering of the mind) and curiositas (novelty-seeking on the part of the imagination) are offspring vices of sloth cited by the tradition (ST II-II 35.4).
51. Amma Syncletica, quoted in Swan, Forgotten Desert Mothers, 46.
52. Swan, Forgotten Desert Mothers, 47.
53. Debra Rienstra, Great with Child: On Becoming a Mother (New York: Tarcher/Putnam, 2002), 186–87.
54. Aristotle’s phrase from the Nichomachean Ethics describes the moral character resulting from training desires.
55. The Holy Rule of St. Benedict, Christian Classics Ethereal Library, http://www.documentacatholicaomnia.eu/03d/0480-0547,_Benedictus_Nursinus,_Regola,_EN.pdf, and Dennis Ockholm, “Stability: Staying Put to Get Somewhere,” in Monk Habits for Everyday People: Benedictine Spirituality for Protestants (Grand Rapids: Brazos, 2007), 89–98.
56. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 6.5. At least one writer suggests that the escapist fantasies of pornography have roots in acedia; Aquinas also links acedia and lust. See Reinhard Hütter, “Pornography and Acedia: A Spiritual Analysis of and Remedy for Lust of the Eyes,” First Things 222 (April 2012), https://www.firstthings.com/article/2012/04/pornography-and-acedia.
57. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 6.9.
58. “Staying put” is spiritually sound advice for ordinary relationships, not for abusive situations. I do not condone harmful “Christian” counsel to stay in abusive marriage or family relationships as a practice of “humility” and “submission.”
59. ST II-II 35.1 ad 4. There Aquinas also says, “the more we think about spiritual goods, the more pleasing they become to us and forthwith sloth dies away.” In Ps. 119, v. 28 (“my soul is weary with sorrow” [NIV]) is countered with practices of faithful meditation on God’s Word, which brings delight (e.g., Ps. 119:97–104).
60. Carlos Fernandez, chapel presentation, Vanguard University, Costa Mesa, CA, Feb. 27, 2007.

Chapter 6 Avarice

1. Wall Street, directed by Oliver Stone (1987; Century City, CA: Twentieth Century Fox, 2007), DVD.
2. The Vulgate and the Douay-Rheims Bible translate this verse from the intertestamental book Ecclesiasticus (also known as Sirach) this way; contemporary English translations usually render it with a different meaning.
3. Clement of Alexandria, “Who Is the Rich Man That Shall Be Saved?,” Ante-Nicene Fathers 2:594, quoted in Chris Hall, Living Wisely with the Church Fathers (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2017), 81.
4. ST II-II 118.2; Aquinas, Disputed Questions on Evil 13.1 ad 6 and 13.2, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003).
5. See ST II-II 117. In On Evil 13, Aquinas opposes justice and avarice.
6. Here again we can see Aquinas working with Aristotelian categories, where virtues of character involve well-ordered passions between vices of deficiency and excess.
7. ST II-II 118.1–2; Aquinas, On Evil 13.1.
8. Deliberately focusing on things and others in themselves, not as mine to consume and possess, gives us a freedom that brings joy, contentment, detachment, and open-handedness. Of course, our giving (as with all our dealings with money) should be informed by prudence—practical reason’s judgment about the most appropriate response—to keep generosity from falling into prodigality.
9. ST II-II 117.1 ad 3.
10. ST II-II 117.1.
11. Cyprian, “On Works and Almsgiving,” quoted in Hall, Living Wisely, 83.
12. ST II-II 118.6 (translation adapted).
13. ST II-II 117.5 ad 1.
14. ST II-II 117.1.
15. Evagrius, Praktikos 3.9.
16. Cassian, The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices 7.22, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000).
17. See the parable of the rich man and Lazarus (Luke 16:19–31).
18. Horace, Epistles 1.2.56, ed. O. A. W. Dilke (London: Methuen, 1954).
19. James Twitchell, Living It Up: Our Love Affair with Luxury (New York: Columbia University Press, 2002), xi, 1; see also 57.
20. See Jen Hatmaker, “Month Three: Possessions,” in Seven: An Experimental Mutiny against Excess (Nashville: B&H, 2012), 69–94.
21. Tim Keller, Counterfeit Gods (New York: Penguin, 2009), 168–70.
22. ST II-II 118.1 ad 2.
23. Hall, Living Wisely, 90.
24. Basil, quoted in ST II-II 118.4 obj. 2.
25. ST II-II 118.8; Aquinas, On Evil 13.3. Aquinas is using Gregory’s list from the Moralia.
26. Cassian, Institutes 7.24.
27. ST II-II 118.2.
28. Pope John Paul II, Evangelium Vitae I (New York: Random House, 1995), 40.
29. William T. Cavanaugh, Being Consumed: Economics and Christian Desire (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2008), 52–53.
30. Paul Griffiths presents the groundwork of this Augustinian worldview in Intellectual Appetite: A Theological Grammar (Washington, DC: Catholic University of America Press, 2009).
31. ST I-II 84.3; Aquinas, On Evil 13.3.
32. Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking: A Seeker’s ABC (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1993), 98.
33. ST II-II 118.6, emphasis added.
34. ST II-II 118.2.
35. Boethius, introduction to The Consolation of Philosophy, trans. Richard Green (New York: Macmillan, 1962); see also bk. 3, prose 10.
36. Mark Buchanan, “Trapped in the Cult of the Next Thing,” Christianity Today, September 6, 1999, 66.
37. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 3.3, in Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003).
38. Augustine, Confessions 2.5, trans. Henry Chadwick (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991).
39. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 3.8, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus.
40. Hatmaker, “Month Three: Possessions,” 93.
41. ST I-II 2.1 ad 3.
42. Rodney Clapp, “Why the Devil Takes VISA: A Christian Response to the Triumph of Consumerism,” Christianity Today, October 7, 1996, 27.
43. Mary Margaret Funk, “On Things,” in Thoughts Matter: The Practice of the Spiritual Life (New York: Continuum, 1998), 65.
44. There is significant dispute over this claim in the Christian tradition. In monastic orders, individuals own nothing, although the monastery itself can own property, engage in trade for goods, and provide for its members’ needs. Is this possessionless state a counsel of perfection only for some? Different church fathers disagreed about whether private property or ownership was a necessary evil, a neutral matter, or a good, and about whether the desire for possessions was natural to human beings or a sinful desire resulting from the fall. My point is simply that human beings cannot live or live well without some material goods (e.g., food, clothing, and shelter). Thus, the remedies I suggest are directed toward the virtuous handling of those goods.
45. Richard Foster, “Guidelines for Simplicity,” Renovare.org, June 28, 2014, https://renovare.org/blog/guidelines-for-simplicity. See also Richard Foster, The Freedom of Simplicity: Finding Harmony in a Complex World, rev. ed. (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 2005).
46. Adele Ahlberg Calhoun, The Spiritual Disciplines Handbook (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2005), 97. Calhoun quotes Rohr on p. 95.
47. M. Robert Mulholland Jr., The Deeper Journey (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2006), 34–35.
48. Text by the Community of Taizé, music by Jacques Berthier (Les Presses de Taizé, 1991), in Sing! A New Creation (Grand Rapids: CRC Publications, 2001), #220.
49. Augustine, Confessions 2.4.
50. C. S. Lewis, Screwtape Letters (New York: HarperCollins, 2001), 113–15.
51. Stanley Hauerwas, The Character of Virtue: Letters to a Godson (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2018), 174.

Chapter 7 Wrath

1. A previous version of this story appeared in “Why Are You Angry?,” The Table, Biola Center for Christian Thought, August 2017, https://cct.biola.edu/why-are-you-angry-exploring-deadly-sin-wrath/.
2. See M. Robert Mulholland Jr., The Deeper Journey (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2006), 30–34, on the fearful and protective forms of the “false self.” The entire chapter names the same perennial spiritual pitfalls as the capital vices.
3. Garret Keizer, The Enigma of Anger: Essays on a Sometimes Deadly Sin (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2002), 10.
4. Jonathan Edwards, “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God,” July 1741, Enfield, CT.
5. For example, ST II-II 158.1. See also ST I-II 59.2–3 for a discussion of how passions are rightly ordered by virtue.
6. Josef Pieper, The Four Cardinal Virtues (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1990), 192.
7. Nicholas Wolterstorff, Justice: Rights and Wrongs (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2008), 118–20.
8. ST II-II 158.8.
9. Gregory the Great, quoted in Aquinas, Disputed Questions on Evil 12.1–2, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003).
10. See Keizer, Enigma of Anger, 26–27. Some interpret this passage as indicating Jesus’s desire to clear the temple that is us (“your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you” [1 Cor. 6:19]). Expressed that way, too, his passion leads him to drive out sin and heal us.
11. Dallas Willard, The Divine Conspiracy (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1998), 151; Martin Luther King Jr., acceptance speech for the Nobel Peace Prize, Oslo, Norway, Dec. 10, 1964.
12. Evagrius, Chapters on Prayer 13 and 24, in Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003).
13. Cassian, The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices 8.1, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000).
14. Commenting on Eph. 4:31, Cassian says, “When [the apostle] says, ‘All anger should be removed from you,’ he makes no exception at all for us as to necessity and utility” (Institutes 8.5).
15. Cassian, Institutes 8.6; also quoted in Aquinas, On Evil 7.1 obj. 4.
16. Dallas Willard, lectures on The Divine Conspiracy (November 2, 2018), https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBBB9G6WW3w.
17. Evagrius, On Thoughts 5, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus.
18. Tim Keller, Counterfeit Gods (New York: Penguin, 2009), 169–70.
19. In Aquinas’s terms, any aspect of harm must fall under the descriptor “what justice requires” (ST II-II 158.1 ad 3). See also ST I-II 46.7, where he argues that anger redresses an injury with a just infliction of punishment.
20. “Venting” usually inflames anger. In the long term, “compassionate reappraisal” (an empathetic step toward forgiveness, distinguished from mere emotion suppression) is the best strategy. See C. Witvliet, N. DeYoung, A. Hofelich, and P. DeYoung, “Compassionate Reappraisal and Emotion Suppression as Alternatives to Offense-Focused Rumination: Implications for Forgiveness and Psychophysiological Well-Being,” Journal of Positive Psychology 6, no. 4 (2011): 289; see also C. Witvliet, A. Hofelich Mohr, N. Hinman, and R. Knoll, “Transforming or Restraining Rumination: The Impact of Compassionate Reappraisal versus Emotion Suppression on Empathy, Forgiveness, and Affective Psychology,” Journal of Positive Psychology 10, no. 3 (2015): 250.
21. ST II-II 142.2.
22. Dallas Willard, Renovation of the Heart (Colorado Springs: NavPress, 2002), 122.
23. Alan Paton, Too Late the Phalarope (New York: Scribner, 1996), 199; see also Keizer, Enigma of Anger, 35–36.
24. Augustine, St. Augustine’s Prayer Book, rev. ed., ed. Loren Gavitt (West Park, NY: Holy Cross Publications, 1967), 116.
25. Dr. Jerry Deffenbacher, “Controlling Anger—Before It Controls You,” American Psychological Association, https://www.apa.org/topics/anger/control.
26. Henry Fairlie, The Seven Deadly Sins Today (Washington, DC: New Republic, 1978; repr., Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1979), 108.
27. Garret Keizer, “The Enigma of Anger: Reflections on a Sometimes Deadly Sin,” Books & Culture (September/October 2002): 9.
28. See Richard E. Barton, “Gendering Anger: Ira, Furor, and Discourses of Power and Masculinity in the Eleventh and Twelfth Centuries,” in In the Garden of Evil: The Vices and Culture in the Middle Ages, ed. Richard Newhauser (Toronto: Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, 2005), 371–92; and Catherine Peyroux, “Gertrude’s Furor: Reading Anger in an Early Medieval Saint’s Life,” in Anger’s Past: The Social Uses of an Emotion in the Middle Ages, ed. Barbara Rosenwein (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1998), 36–55.
29. Don Henley, “Heart of the Matter,” The End of the Innocence (Geffen Records, 1989).
30. C. V. O. Witvliet, “Flourishing in a Messy Life” (lecture, Holland, MI, April 2017). It’s also a mistake to minimize the offense and fail to acknowledge the damage done.
31. ST II-II 72–76.
32. This phrase is attributed to Gregory of Nyssa.
33. Stephen Calloway and Susan Owens, Divinely Decadent (London: Octopus, 2001), 160–61.
34. The Mission, directed by Roland Joffé (1986; Burbank, CA: Warner Home Video, 2003), DVD.
35. Aquinas calls this “fraternal correction,” an act of Christian love (ST II-II 33).
36. Dallas Willard, “Divine Conspiracy 11: Living Without Anger,” https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBBB9G6WW3w.
37. Martin Luther King Jr., “Letter from a Birmingham Jail,” reprinted in Exploring Ethics: An Introductory Anthology, ed. Stephen Cahn (New York: Oxford University Press, 2017), 42.
38. Black Panther, directed by Ryan Coogler (Burbank, CA: Marvel Studios, 2018), DVD.
39. If anger is about justice, and justice is about our relationships with others, can we be angry at ourselves? It certainly seems psychologically possible. Although I will not discuss it here, if self-directed anger is possible, it likely depends on our ability to reflect on our own actions from a second-order perspective, in which we consider our own actions or feelings or judgments and make judgments about them from our reflective stance.
40. Martin Luther King Jr., The Strength to Love (New York: Harper & Row, 1963; repr., Philadelphia: Fortress, 1981), 53.
41. Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking: A Seeker’s ABC (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1993), 2, emphasis added.
42. Translating God’s anger as “wrath” indicates not a moral disorder or even an emotion (see nn. 36, 44) but rather God’s stance of total opposition to anything that thwarts the flourishing of his creation and our loving relationship with him.
43. Henri Nouwen, The Wounded Healer: Ministry in Contemporary Society (New York: Doubleday/Image, 1979).
44. Some Christians have argued that it is anthropomorphic and metaphorical—Scripture’s concession to human limitations—to describe God as angry at all, since he lacks a body and therefore lacks passions in our sense of the word.
45. Antonio Spadaro, SJ, “A Big Heart Open To God: An Interview with Pope Francis,” America, Sept. 30, 2013, https://www.americamagazine.org/faith/2013/09/30/big-heart-open-god-interview-pope-francis. Time editor Nancy Gibbs refers to this quote in her article discussing the selection of Pope Francis as Time’s 2013 Person of the Year (“Pope Francis, the Choice,” Time, December 11, 2013, http://poy.time.com/2013/12/11/pope-francis-the-choice/).
46. Kyle Benson, “The Anger Iceberg,” The Gottman Relationship Blog, November 8, 2016, https://www.gottman.com/blog/the-anger-iceberg/.
47. See my “Practicing Hope,” Res Philosophica 91, no. 3 (2014): 387–410.
48. Rory Cooney, Gary Daigle, and Theresa Donohoo, “Canticle of the Turning,” Safety Harbor (GIA Publications, 1990).
49. See my essay “What Are You Guarding? Virtuous Anger and Lifelong Practice,” in Becoming Good: New Philosophical Essays in Aid of Virtue Development, ed. Adam Pelser and Scott Cleveland (Oxford: Oxford University Press, forthcoming).
50. G. K. Chesterton, Illustrated London News, July 16, 1910.
51. See Kent Dunnington, Humility, Pride, and Christian Virtue Theory (New York: Oxford University Press, 2018), for more on the virtue of humility.
52. The Sayings of the Fathers 16.3, in Western Asceticism, ed. Owen Chadwick, Library of Christian Classics 12 (Philadelphia: Westminster, 1958).
53. Julian of Norwich, “Revelations,” in The Complete Julian of Norwich, ed. and trans. Fr. John-Julian, OJN (Brewster, MA: Paraclete, 2009), 171.

Chapter 8 Gluttony

1. Aquinas, Disputed Questions on Evil, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003), 14.1 ad 2; ST II-II 148.2 ad 2, emphasis added.
2. Scot McKnight, Fasting, ed. Phyllis Tickle, Ancient Practices Series (Nashville: Nelson, 2009), 8.
3. Augustine, On the Morals of the Catholic Church against the Manichees 21, quoted in ST II-II 141.6.
4. Thanks to W. Jay Wood for the updated version.
5. C. S. Lewis, Screwtape Letters (New York: HarperCollins, 2001), 87–88.
6. William Ian Miller, “Gluttony,” in Wicked Pleasures: Meditations on the Seven “Deadly” Sins, ed. Robert Solomon (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 1999), 33–34.
7. Gwen Shamblin, The Weigh Down Diet (New York: Doubleday, 1997), 46–47, see also 110–11, where she gives similar instructions for eating potato chips, guacamole, and M&M’s.
8. Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking: A Seeker’s ABC (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1993), 35.
9. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 1.27, in Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003).
10. Because we can use reason to creatively aid the escalation and satisfaction of our excessive appetites, the forms of human disorder here, as with lust, are typically worse than anything we might observe in (nonhuman) animal behaviors, as the infamous Roman vomitoriums illustrate.
11. ST II-II 141.4.
12. See my essay “Courage,” in Being Good: Christian Virtues for Everyday Life, ed. Michael Austin and R. Douglas Geivett (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2012), 145–66.
13. See Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics 2.2, 6, 8–9, trans. T. Irwin (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1999). This feature of virtue is commonly thought to be limited primarily to the virtues of character that concern directing the passions. The notion that virtue lies in a mean should not be interpreted as indicating that you should moderately desire pleasure or be moderately afraid all the time (in life-threatening situations, for example, great fear may be an appropriate response). Neither is the mean exactly in the middle between the two extremes (in fact, it’s usually not). Rather, in our reactions of pleasure, desire, or fear to various situations, we go wrong by having these emotions excessively. While it is sometimes fitting to be very afraid, we fall into the vice of cowardice when we are so afraid that we abandon our duty instead of completing our mission. Thus having too much fear is a moral problem, even if we can also correctly say that it is right to feel very afraid. Not feeling much fear is also fitting sometimes (e.g., when driving), but again, if we feel too little fear, we have a vice of deficiency called rashness (e.g., carelessly speeding through red lights).
14. It should not be confused with mere hunger, however.
15. J. K. Rowling’s character Alastor “Mad-Eye” Moody (in the Harry Potter series) often seems like the closest thing I can envision to a modern-day version of the desert fathers: an eccentric (by our standards) but inspiring detective of dark forces, who exhorts those around him to practice “Constant vigilance!”
16. Babette’s Feast, directed by Gabriel Axel (Rome: Panorama Films A/S, 1987), DVD.
17. ST II-II 147.1 ad 2.
18. Aquinas, On Evil 14.1 ad 6.
19. Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics 2.1–3 (esp. 1040b10).
20. For more on training desire and combating temptations to intemperance, see Myles Burnyeat, “Aristotle on Learning to Be Good,” in Essays on Aristotle’s Ethics, ed. A. O. Rorty (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1981), 69–92.
21. Iris Murdoch, The Sovereignty of Good (London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1970), 91.
22. Noted in ST II-II 146.1.
23. Augustine, Quaestiones Evangelorium 2.11, quoted in ST II-II 146.1 ad 2.
24. ST II-II 146.1 ad 2.
25. Underindulgence in food (regardless of whether this tracks lack of desire) is often motivated by vainglory and the desire for a certain body type. This practice, and eating disorders such as bulimia and anorexia, should not be confused with gluttony or with deficient desire for the pleasures of eating.
26. Drinking temperately requires that we not impair our other faculties by intoxication. Aquinas treats sobriety and drunkenness in ST II-II 149–50.
27. Kallistos Ware, “The Meaning of the Great Fast,” in The Lenten Triodion, trans. Mother Mary and Kallistos Ware (London: Faber & Faber, 1978), 16.
28. McKnight, Fasting, 67.
29. Dallas Willard, The Spirit of the Disciplines (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1988), 167.
30. Richard Foster, The Freedom of Simplicity: Finding Harmony in a Complex World, rev. ed. (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 2005), 164.
31. McKnight, Fasting, 85.
32. Dallas Willard, The Divine Conspiracy (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1998), 322.
33. “The deepest revelation of our character is what we choose to dwell on in thought, what constantly occupies our mind—as well as what we can or cannot even think of” (Willard, Divine Conspiracy, 324).
34. Ware, “Meaning of the Great Fast,” 16.
35. Cassian, Institutes 5.9, in The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000): “Nonetheless, there is one end of abstinence in all these instances—that no one, according to the measure of his own capacity, be burdened by voracious satiety.” For flexibility of regimen, see 5.5.1–2 and 5.9.
36. Ware, “Meaning of the Great Fast,” 16.
37. Ironically, much dieting is disordered in the same way. Its willpower or self-control contrasts with fasting, which both depends on God’s power and seeks a spiritual relationship to another, not a physical or individual good.
38. Willard, Spirit of the Disciplines, 166.
39. McKnight, Fasting, 87; he cites Thomas Ryan, The Sacred Act of Fasting (Woodstock, VT: SkyLight Paths, 2005) as embodying hopeful anticipation.
40. McKnight, Fasting, 82.

Chapter 9 Lust

1. William H. Gass, “Lust,” in Wicked Pleasures: Meditations on the Seven “Deadly” Sins, ed. Robert Solomon (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 1999), 134–35.
2. For representative examples of this increasingly common opinion, see Simon Blackburn, Lust: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York: New York Public Library/Oxford University Press, 2004), and Libby Anne, “The ‘Problem’ of Lust,” Patheos.com, August 4, 2011, https://www.patheos.com/blogs/lovejoyfeminism/2011/08/the-problem-of-lust.html.
3. Dallas Willard, The Divine Conspiracy (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1998), 163.
4. Augustine, Confessions 8.7, trans. Henry Chadwick (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991).
5. Augustine, Confessions 8.11.
6. I am grateful to Lawrence Cunningham, whose review of the first edition prompted me to make this point more explicit; see his review in Commonweal, June 4, 2010, https://www.commonwealmagazine.org/religion-booknotes-11. Aquinas devotes most of his discussion to lust defined as a vice opposing temperance in its specific sense (i.e., moderating desires for the “natural” pleasures of touch—most specifically, taste and sexual touch) and not in its general sense (any virtue having the mode of moderating desires that tend to excess). In fact, this is true of all the cardinal virtues and their opposing vices, since Aquinas prefers to define cardinal virtues by their specific matter (ST I-II 61.4). For related comments on chastity and lust, see ST II-II 141.4–5 and 151.2. “Even as temperance chiefly and properly applies to pleasures of touch, yet consequently and by a kind of likeness is referred to other matters, so too, lust applies chiefly to venereal [or sexual] pleasures, which more than anything else work the greatest havoc in [the human] mind, yet secondarily it applies to any other matters pertaining to excess. Hence, a gloss on Galatians 5:19 says, ‘Lust is any kind of surfeit’” (ST II-II 153.3, emphasis added).
7. ST II-II 154.8 ad 2.
8. Evagrius, Praktikos 48.
9. Al Vernacchio, For Goodness Sex: Changing the Way We Talk to Teens about Sexuality, Values, and Health (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 2014), 5.
10. N. T. Wright, Following Jesus: Christian Reflections on Discipleship, 2nd ed. (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1994), 66.
11. This is controversial. I’m trying to report what Scripture does say: it speaks in these terms and uses the marriage of husband and wife to picture God’s relationship with his people. What it doesn’t say is what we should do about legal structures and living arrangements for those of no faith or other faiths who don’t take Scripture as authoritative, or those who profess Christian faith but see Scripture as too narrowly interpreted here and needing to be extended (e.g., to include homosexual unions), or those who want to accommodate cultural disagreement by allowing a range of other legal unions and family arrangements, who reject gender binaries as essentialist, or who disagree about what sort of relationships the term “marriage” should now be taken to include. I’m not taking a position on those matters here.
12. Frederick Buechner, Wishful Thinking: A Seeker’s ABC (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1993), 107.
13. “And since pleasure results from a natural operation, it is so much the greater according as it results from a more natural operation. Now to animals the most natural operations are those which preserve the nature of the individual by means of meat and drink, and the nature of the species by the union of the sexes” (ST II-II 141.2). Insofar as sexual activity is ordered toward the continuation of the human race as a whole, Aquinas calls it a “very great good” (ST II-II 151.3). Contemporary treatments of sexuality rightly emphasize and equally affirm the unitive (and not just the procreative) aspect of sexuality, but Aquinas was already moving toward a much greater acceptance of human sexual activity and its goodness than many of his predecessors (e.g., the desert tradition).
14. Paul Ricoeur, Sexualität. Wunder—Abwege—Rätsel (Frankfurt: Rischer Bücherei, 1967), 15, as quoted in Josef Pieper, Faith, Hope, Love (San Francisco: Ignatius, 1997), 266.
15. Pieper, Faith, Hope, Love, 265.
16. Rev. Peter Yonker, “Lust” (sermon, La Grave Avenue Christian Reformed Church, Grand Rapids, MI, March 11, 2018), https://www.lagrave.org/sermon-archive/.
17. Buechner, Wishful Thinking, 107.
18. Put in the Greek philosopher Aristotle’s terms, lust degrades a virtue friendship, in which we love another for his or her own sake (as we love ourselves), into a friendship of utility and pleasure, which lasts only as long as the other person is able to supply the usefulness and pleasure we expect. See Nichomachean Ethics 8.
19. ST II-II 142.2 and 151.1–2.
20. This dynamic applies to lust in both its general form (luxuria) and its specific, i.e., sexual, form. See n. 6.
21. For the desert fathers, who vowed lifelong celibacy, the goal was dampening and forbidding all sexual desire. Later thinkers moderated their ascetic counsel. Interpreters should not mistake their counsel for a general view of well-ordered sexuality and its expression in marriage.
22. Buechner, Wishful Thinking, 108.
23. Plato, Symposium, trans. Alexander Nehamas and Paul Woodruff (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1989), 189c–94e.
24. A thought more profound than Jerry Maguire’s famous “You complete me” scene—although it certainly echoes that idea. Jerry Maguire, directed by Cameron Crowe (Culver City, CA: TriStar Pictures, 1996), DVD.
25. Justine Timberlake, “Mirrors,” 20/20 Experience (Sony, 2013).
26. Plato, Symposium 192d.
27. Fight the New Drug, September 1, 2018, https://fightthenewdrug.org/overview/.
28. XXXchurch.com, February–March 2008, http://www.xxxchurch.com/prayerwall.
29. Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics 10.5 (1175a25), trans. T. Irwin (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1999). See also Alasdair MacIntyre, After Virtue (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1981), 197–98. Aquinas uses this criterion to distinguish pleasures of sexual touch from pleasures of taste (which also involves touch). See ST II-II 151.3.
30. Madeleine L’Engle, “To a Long Loved Love,” in The Ordering of Love: New and Collected Poems of Madeleine L’Engle (Colorado Springs: Shaw Books/Waterbrook, 2005), 3.
31. Although I am not focusing explicitly on such cases here, the virtue of chastity—honoring the way sexual desire is meant to be pursued and satisfied in loving, lifelong relationships (traditionally, only in marriage)—likewise requires abstention from satisfying sexual desire when the right conditions don’t obtain. That is sometimes the case when the conditions are chosen (e.g., by taking a religious vow) or unchosen (e.g., if you are unable to marry, or if your spouse dies or falls ill or is absent for a time). Deliberately training ourselves to satisfy sexual desires only under the right conditions and in service to the right sorts of goods (i.e., loving relationships with other persons, human or divine) prepares us well for both types of circumstances.
32. ST II-II 154.2 obj. 4. Aquinas raises the objection to sexual intercourse between unmarried people (“fornication”) because he thinks it’s the hardest case of sexual impropriety to recognize as wrong. The Ten Commandments prohibit adultery, by contrast, because it is the most easily recognizable case. He notes that the commandment applies to all sexual impropriety, including “looking at another person in order to lust” as Jesus teaches in the Sermon on the Mount (Matt. 5:27–28).
33. What the culture surely gets right here is that willing consent is one necessary element of a sexual encounter that engages us as human beings, although it’s not sufficient.
34. ST II-II 154.8 ad 2.
35. Naomi Wolf, “The Porn Myth,” New York Magazine, October 9, 2003, http://nymag.com/nymetro/news/trends/n_9437/.
36. Robert Solomon, ed., Wicked Pleasures: Meditations on the Seven “Deadly” Sins (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 1999), 3.
37. For a variety of examples, see pornography ministry site www.xxxchurch.com/connect.
38. Willard, Divine Conspiracy, 164. See his full treatment in context: 158–68. For lust’s link with violence, see also n. 56.
39. Willard, Divine Conspiracy, 161.
40. Alan Paton, Too Late the Phalarope (New York: Scribner, 1996), 154, 163, 200.
41. Buechner, Wishful Thinking, 108.
42. Cassian, The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices 6.9, 20, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000). See also ST II-II 151.4.
43. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 2.8, in Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus, trans. and ed. Robert E. Sinkewicz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003).
44. Evagrius, Eight Thoughts 2.6, in Sinkewicz, Evagrius of Pontus.
45. Amma Theodora, quoted in Laura Swan, The Forgotten Desert Mothers: Lives, Sayings, and Stories from Early Christian Women (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 2001), 80. Aptly, Amma Theodora is arguing a point against a Manichean, who denies the goodness of the flesh.
46. René Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy, meditation 6, trans. Donald A. Cress, 3rd ed. (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1993).
47. Cassian, Institutes 6.17 and 19. In this, he echoes Jesus’s comments on lust and adultery in Matt. 5:28.
48. For an extended example, see A. J. Swoboda’s argument for the embodied discipline of Sabbath-keeping as physical, spiritual, and countercultural practice in Subversive Sabbath (Grand Rapids: Brazos, 2018).
49. Cornelius Plantinga Jr. and Sue A. Rozeboom, Discerning the Spirits: A Guide to Thinking about Christian Worship Today (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2003), 159.
50. My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, Kanye West (Def Jam Recordings, Roc-A-Fella Records, 2010).
51. Statistics show, however, that female porn use currently falls somewhere near the 40 percent mark and is increasing.
52. L’Engle, “To a Long Loved Love: 7,” in Ordering of Love, 138.
53. ST II-II 153.5; Aquinas, Disputed Questions on Evil 15.4, trans. Richard Regan, ed. Brian Davies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003).
54. Josef Pieper, The Four Cardinal Virtues (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1966), 167.
55. Feelings of guilt and unworthiness are more likely to fuel gluttonous and lustful escapist strategies than to provide their antidote, in a dynamic typical of compulsions. See Kent Dunnington, Addiction and Virtue: Beyond the Models of Disease and Choice (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2011).
56. As lust progresses, the combination of pleasure-seeking with such a “power trip” may lead to greater domination as a turn-on—hence the violence of hard-core pornography and lust’s otherwise puzzling and perhaps dubious connection to rape (as a crime not of excessive sexual passion but of humiliation and dehumanizing power over another).
57. See Karol Wojtyla, Love and Responsibility (San Francisco: Ignatius, 1993), esp. 130, 167, 256–57.
58. In the Catholic tradition’s model of religious orders, members take a vow of celibacy—a vow that is framed as a marriage to Christ. Members of such orders then live in close, intentional community, like families. Perhaps one reason Protestants struggle with the impossibility or unthinkability of singleness is that they do not frame the practice of chastity or celibacy corporately or communally enough.
59. Augustine, Confessions 8.11.
60. Augustine, Confessions 8.1, emphasis added. This image recurs in 8.5, 11, and 9.1.
61. C. S. Lewis, Mere Christianity, rev. ed. (New York: HarperCollins, 2001), 108.
62. ST II-II 23.1.
63. Flame, directed by Rob Bell, NOOMA #002 (Fringe, 2002), http://www.nooma.com. However we assess Rob Bell’s theology, here he shows the beauty of human sexuality and the power of a well-formed moral imagination.
64. L’Engle, “Epiphany,” in Ordering of Love, 139.

Chapter 10 The Rest of the Journey

1. Sharon Garlough Brown, who gave me this word, also incorporates this story in Remember Me: A Novella about Finding Our Way to the Cross (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2019), 85–87.
2. “Way of life” talk echoes themes in Wisdom literature in the Old Testament—see, for example, Ps. 1 and the wisdom-folly contrast in Prov. 1–9.
3. Cassian, The Institutes of the Cenobia and the Remedies for the Eight Principal Vices 11.17, trans. Boniface Ramsey, OP, Ancient Christian Writers 58 (Mahwah, NJ: Newman, 2000). The desert process of discernment—noting and naming the “thoughts” (logismoi) and responding intentionally before they have a chance to stir our passions into action—has similarities to the Ignatian practices of examen and discernment of spirits. See Timothy M. Gallagher, OMV, The Discernment of Spirits: An Ignatian Guide for Everyday Living (New York: Crossroad, 2005), 16–25.
4. Richard Rohr and Andreas Ebert, The Enneagram: A Christian Perspective (New York: Crossroad, 2016), xi.
5. A. J. Swoboda, Subversive Sabbath (Grand Rapids: Brazos, 2018), xi.
6. Swoboda, Subversive Sabbath, x.
7. Josef Pieper, Leisure: The Basis of Culture (New York: Pantheon, 1952), 27.
8. Dallas Willard, “Rethinking Evangelism,” reprinted from Cutting Edge magazine, Winter 2001, http://www.dwillard.org/articles/individual/rethinking-evangelism.
9. Dallas Willard, The Divine Conspiracy (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1998), 183.
10. Augustine, Confessions 8.11, trans. Henry Chadwick (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991).
11. See, for example, David Brooks, The Road to Character (New York: Random House, 2015), xi, and Gretchen Rubin, The Happiness Project (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 2012).
12. John Stott, God’s New Society (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 1979), 193.
13. David Wilkie, Coffee with Jesus (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2013), 42.
14. Richard Rohr, “Commodity Culture,” https://cac.org/commodity-culture-2016-09-01/. Further, say Rohr and Ebert, “Even the letting go and opening of ourselves was not our achievement; the credit has to go to God for ‘wooing’ our love” (Enneagram, 41).
15. Tish Harrison Warren, Liturgy of the Ordinary (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2012).
16. Richard Foster, The Freedom of Simplicity (San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1981), 174.
17. Rohr and Ebert, Enneagram, 26.
18. Stanley Hauerwas and Charles Pinches, Christians among the Virtues: Theological Conversations with Ancient and Modern Ethics (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1997), 124, 128.
19. Eugene Peterson, A Long Obedience in the Same Direction: Discipleship in an Instant Society (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 2000).
20. Calhoun, Spiritual Disciplines Handbook, 11–13.
21. For example, Paul Griffiths makes the case that we can “pray without ceasing” as a comprehensive habit of gratitude. See Griffiths, “Pray without Ceasing,” Christian Reflection 32 (2009): 11–17; reprinted in All Things Hold Together in Christ, ed. J. K. A. Smith and M. Gulker (Grand Rapids: Baker Academic, 2018).
22. Kathleen Norris, The Quotidian Mysteries: On Laundry, Liturgy, and Women’s Work (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 1998).
23. Julia Annas, Intelligent Virtue (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011), emphasizes the development from learner to expert in virtue. See esp. chaps. 2–3.
24. Hauerwas and Pinches, Christians among the Virtues, 127. They argue that, ultimately, she will end up inhabiting a different world. For a similar point about “seeing as,” see the account by Robert C. Roberts of the “construals” characterizing “spiritual emotions”—e.g., joy, contrition, gratitude, and hope—in Spiritual Emotions: A Psychology of Christian Virtues (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2007).
25. For more on character formation, see Alasdair MacIntyre, After Virtue (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1981), 188–91; Myles Burnyeat, “Aristotle on Learning to Be Good,” in Essays on Aristotle’s Ethics, ed. A. O. Rorty (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1981), 69–92; and Annas, Intelligent Virtue. See also my “Pedagogical Rhythms: Practices and Reflections on Practice,” in Teaching and Christian Practices, ed. David I. Smith and J. K. A. Smith (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2011), 24–42.
26. See, for example, Richard Foster, Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth, anniversary ed. (San Francisco: HarperOne, 2018).
27. I am grateful to Dr. David Crump, emeritus professor of theology at Calvin University, for this metaphor.

Epilogue

1. Augustine, City of God 15.22, trans. Marcus Dods (New York: Modern Library, 1950). See Peter Brown’s insightful analysis of this theme in Augustine of Hippo (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1967), chap. 27, esp. 325–26.
2. To clarify, this is only one of several senses of the term “pride.” Although I have been referring to the vice of pride, it’s also common for English speakers to use the term “pride” in perfectly benign ways. For example, we tell our children we are proud of them or we express pride in a hard-won accomplishment. It’s important to explain what sort of pride this might be, especially since I have tracked only the destructive footprints of pride throughout this book.

Aquinas distinguishes two kinds of pride—general pride and specific pride. General pride is the kind of pride I’ve been talking about in the book. It’s the basic pattern of all sin, turning away from God’s picture of the good and preferring our own—spurning the divine good for something less or lower instead. All the vices follow this prideful pattern of loving a created thing over the Creator.

Special pride, on the other hand, is not something I’ve discussed in the book other than briefly distinguishing it from vainglory. It denotes a particular vice, which we could include on any list of vices along with dishonesty, cowardice, and the like. Dishonesty is about truth, and cowardice is about threats that make us afraid; so pride is about the desire to have excellent goods. What makes them vices is that their desire or attitude toward their object is disordered. If we define the feeling of pride as a desire for or delight in some excellence (some superior good) that belongs to me (or is somehow considered “mine”), then there is nothing wrong with being proud of our children or our accomplishments. We can rightly desire or delight in excellent goods that belong to us (at least in some sense of “belong”). This desire goes wrong when it becomes excessive or attached to the wrong object—a familiar theme from the analysis of vice we’ve seen in this book. When the focus falls too hard on the “better than yours” aspect of excellence, rather than on “striving to meet the highest standards,” or when my delight over some excellence being mine is too possessive and not simply rejoicing over having something so wonderful, then being proud of something shades into disorder and counts as a particular vice. This kind of pride is not identical to the pattern behind all sin, so it remains distinguished from general pride. See, for example, Robert C. Roberts, “Pride” in Faith and Philosophy 26, no. 2 (2009): 119–33.

3. Traditional villains in fiction usually fit this pattern: J. K. Rowling’s Voldemort is a typical case. Many heroes typifying humanistic moral ideals, such as the self-sufficiency and self-reliance of the protagonists of American action-adventure films, also exhibit forms of pride.
4. For more on links between the two lists, see Richard Rohr and Andreas Ebert, The Enneagram: A Christian Perspective (New York: Crossroad, 2016), 6–14, esp. 10.
5. Horace, Epistles 1.1.41, ed. O. A. W. Dilke (London: Methuen, 1954).
6. Madeleine L’Engle, “Within This Quickened Dust,” in The Ordering of Love: New and Collected Poems of Madeleine L’Engle (Colorado Springs: Shaw Books/Waterbrook, 2005), 66.
7. For further sources, including scholarly resources, see the endnotes and further reading sections of each chapter.

c1V4

Index

Abram, 114

advertising, 148–49

Amadeus, 67–68, 71, 79

Amma Theodora, 91–92, 206, 254n30

Aristophanes, 199

Aristotle, 10, 176, 224, 255n6, 262n18

asceticism, 179, 206–7

attachments, 143, 177–78, 199–200

Augustine, 23, 36, 43, 48, 52–53, 60, 177–78, 190–91, 224–25, 248n56

avarice

consumerism, 130

contemporary society, 125–26

definition of, 113

and external actions, 113–14

and giving/generosity, 115–17, 123, 132–33, 135, 255n8

and God, 132–33, 135

hindrances to giving, 117–18

and inner attachment, 113–14, 115–16

insensibility to mercy, 123–24

instrumentalization of human beings, 125–26

and justice, 121–22

and liberality, 114, 255n8

needs of this life, 120

and possessions, 112–14, 117–18, 119–21, 124, 128, 133, 257n44

and power, 128

and prodigality, 114–15, 255n8

prophets’ warnings about wealth, 122

simplicity, 132

tithing, 131

and wealth, 129–30

Babette’s Feast, 175

Barnum, P. T., 48

Basil, 123

Blackburn, Simon, 4

Black Panther, 152

Buchanan, Mark, 128–29

Buechner, Frederick, 127, 153

Calhoun, Adele Ahlberg, 231

capital vices, 25, 30–31, 32, 33, 102, 200, 218, 236–37, 262n6, 266n2. See also “seven deadly sins”; seven vices

Cassian, John, 25, 31, 33, 34, 56, 92–93, 104, 119, 124, 130–31, 141–43, 192–93, 207, 221, 246n12, 247n29

Cavanaugh, William T., 126

character, 7–8, 10, 23, 36, 232, 235–37, 261n33

Chariots of Fire, 77–78

charity, 32. See also love

children, 83–84

Christianity

and avarice, 112–13

Christ, 11–12

discipleship, 14, 15

and gluttony, 181

and lust, 193–94

and possessions, 112–13

tradition, 6

virtue, 11–12

and wrath, 139, 140–41

Christian tradition, 112–13, 139, 140–41, 244n13

Christlikeness, 15, 225, 230

Clapp, Rodney, 130

common good, 123, 126–27

community, 232–33

confession, 16

contemporary culture/society

avarice, 125–26

lust, 208–9

seven deadly sins, 3–6

sloth, 4, 5, 88

vainglory, 41–42, 48–49

vice, 13–14, 16–17, 21

courage, 7–8, 173

cowardice, 173, 174, 260n13

Dante Alighieri, 18, 245n34

demons, 24

desert fathers and mothers

avarice, 118–19

death, 236

discernment process, 265n3

gluttony, 175

and God, 233–34

list of vices, 24, 25

lust, 206–7, 263n21

sloth, 90–93, 107–9

desire, 37

discipleship, 14, 15, 120, 226–27, 230, 237

disciplines, 220–23, 224, 226, 227, 229, 230, 231–32, 237, 248n48

Dyson, Eric, 4

envy

and covetousness, 69, 250n3

everyday sense, 68–69

and excellence, 78

fatalism, 74–75

and God, 79–81, 84–85

goods, 82, 83, 251n36

gratitude, 84–85, 252n41

hatred, 73

identity, 76–77

inferiority, 75–76

and jealousy, 69–70

losing, 80

offspring vices, 72–73

powerlessness, 74–75

rivals, 72–74, 75

self-worth, 71–72, 79, 80, 81, 82

sorrow, 70–71

symptoms, 72

and vainglory, 83

and zeal, 84

Epstein, Joseph, 75

ethics, 27–28

evagatio mentis, 100, 255n50

Evagrius of Pontus, 23–25, 56–57, 91, 92, 107, 118–19, 129, 141, 142, 193, 206, 245n9, 246n13, 247n29, 248n48

fantasizing, 121

fasting. See under gluttony

fear, 133–34, 174, 238

fidelity, 10

Ford, Henry, 29–30

Foster, Richard, 132

Francis (pope), 156

FRESH, 166

funerals, 235–36

Funk, Mary Margaret, 131

Gass, William, 30, 190

glory, 46

gluttony

animals, 172

appropriateness, 179–80

attachment, 177–78

avoiding, 177

and the body, 175, 178, 187

desire, 174, 176–77

dieting as disordered, 261n37

disciplines, 183

dissatisfaction, 171

excessive, 166, 169

fastidious, 166

fasting, 175–76, 183–85, 186, 228–30

feasting, 182

and God, 165, 173, 185

goods, 165, 171–72, 179, 182–83, 185, 187

gratification, 186

habit, 164–65, 167

hasty, 166, 168–69

and lust, 197–98

ravenous, 166, 168

and reason, 260n10

social act, 178–79

stereotypes, 177

sumptuous, 166, 167–68

sweets, 170–71

training, 181–82

why we eat, 170

God

and avarice/greed, 132–33, 135

and desert fathers and mothers, 233–34

and disciplines, 229, 230

and envy, 79–81, 84–85

and gluttony, 165, 173, 185

and goods, 219–20

as jealous, 70

and lust, 213, 214–15

and money, 219

Old Testament, 153–54

and pride, 219

and sloth, 95–96, 97, 101

and vainglory, 51–53, 60, 64–65

and vice, 2

wrath/anger, 139–40, 150–51, 153–54, 156, 259n42, 259n44

goods

and envy, 82, 83, 251n36

and gluttony, 165, 171–72, 179, 182–83, 185, 187

and God, 219–20

and pride, 266n2

and sloth, 255n59

grace, 28–29, 96, 103

greed, 112, 113, 121, 127, 134, 169, 219–20

Gregory I (pope), 25–26, 34, 246n12

Groundhog Day, 99–100

habit, 7, 8, 9, 224

Hatmaker, Jen, 129

history, 22

Holy Spirit, 95–96, 98

honor, 46–47

Hume, David, 29

humility, 154–55, 160–61

humor, 4–5

idolatry, 121

Incredibles, The, 72, 75–76

Jerome, 175–76

Jesus Christ

and avarice/greed, 112, 113

character of, 225, 226, 227

and Christian tradition, 11–12

conformity to, 226–28, 230

and envy, 81

fasting of, 181–82

gentleness, 161

humility, 154–55

injustice, 155–56

and sin, 220

solitude, 61–62

temple cleansing, 155, 257n10

and vainglory, 53–54, 57, 61–62

vine, 220, 223

virtue, 11–12

and wrath/anger, 140, 153, 154–55, 161

John Paul II (pope), 125–26

Joseph, 78–79

Joseph of Arimathea, 116

Keller, Tim, 121, 142

King, Martin Luther, Jr., 151–52

Lamott, Anne, 62–63

Langland, William, 74

L’Engle, Madeleine, 202, 209–10, 215

Lent, 167–68

Lewis, C. S., 17, 134–35, 166–67, 214

Lord’s Supper, 182

Lot, 114

love

and envy, 69–70, 78, 81–82

of God, 98

and lust, 200, 214, 215

of novelties, 56

and sloth, 98, 99, 100–101, 102, 103–4, 106, 108

virtue, 23

wrath, 144, 156

lust

adultery, 203, 263n32

blindness of mind, 210

and the body, 198–99, 207–8

and character, 193

and chastity, 192, 207, 211–14, 263n31, 264n58

and Christianity, 193–94

and community, 212, 264n58

and creation, 191–92

damage of, 203–4, 206

David and Bathsheba, 203

definition, 191, 262n6

dehumanization, 197, 264n56

and friendships, 214–15, 262n18

and gluttony, 197–98

and God, 213, 214–15

goodness of sexuality, 191–92, 194, 195, 196

no-injury objection, 203

pornography, 201, 204–5, 255n56

power of sexuality, 195, 264n56

reproduction, 194, 262n13

resisting, 210–11, 214

self-gratification, 196–97, 201

shame, 195

sociality of sexuality, 16

susceptibility, 211

unitive aspect of sexuality, 262n13

as vice, 195

weakness, 195

MacIntyre, Alasdair, 8–9

magnanimity, 49

malice, 74

Marines, 180–81

marketing, 5

Marty, Martin, 4

mental illness versus moral responsibility, 244n13

mercy, works of, 248n49

Miller, William Ian, 43

Mission, The, 149–50, 151, 152

modernity, 29–30

monasticism, 24. See also desert fathers and mothers

money, 127, 133, 219

moral formation. See spiritual formation

Moralia (Gregory), 26

mortal sin, 32–33

Moses, 2

Mozart, Wolfgang Amadeus, 67–68, 71, 79

Mulholland, Robert, 133

Ocean’s Eleven, 124–25

Old Testament, 153–54

Paton, Alan, 205–6

Paul (apostle), 14–15, 22–23, 95–96, 98, 139, 207

Peraldus, William, 27

Percy, Walker, 73

Piers Plowman (Langland), 74

Plato, 122, 199

pleasure, 125, 165, 166, 171, 172–73, 174, 184, 186, 197–98, 201–2

poverty, 118, 120–21

practice, 8–9

pride

arrogance, 238

and avarice/greed, 127–28

benign/positive sense of, 266n2

and envy, 79–80

and gluttony, 185

and God, 219, 248n56

and lust, 200

and sin, 31, 34, 218–19

status, 45

and vainglory, 34, 44, 45, 47, 58, 63–64

and vices, 26, 237–39, 247n41

wrath/anger, 160–61

Prose, Francine, 3

Protestantism, 28–29, 32–33

Proverbs, book of, 154

Prudentius, 34–35

pusillanimity, 1–2, 100

rashness, 173–74, 260n13

renunciation, 15, 130–31

Roberts, Robert, 81

Rule of St. Benedict, 25

Sabbath, 222

Salieri, Antonio, 67–68, 71, 73–74, 75, 79

sanctification, 15, 28, 96, 103

Schimmel, Solomon, 4

Scripture, 16, 112, 133–34

self-examination, 15–16, 158–59, 183, 218, 220–21, 224, 225, 233, 259n39

self-knowledge, 37–38

“seven deadly sins,” 22, 32

seven vices, 13, 25–26, 27–28, 30, 34–36, 37, 218. See also capital vices

Shamblin, Gwen, 168

silence, 61, 62–63, 222–23

sin, 6–7, 16, 22, 32–33, 89, 218, 220. See also capital vices; “seven deadly sins”

sloth

as acedia, 90–92, 97, 100–106

consent of the will, 253n17

and diligence, 89–90

discipline, 103, 107

escapism, 104, 105

as grief, 254n30

inner condition, 93

and laziness, 88, 90, 92, 102, 104–5

on the list of sins, 24, 88

manual labor, 93

marriage analogy, 94–95, 96–97, 98–99, 254n31

and neighbor, 103–4

offspring vice, 255n50

perseverance, 107–8

resignation, 104–5

and rest, 105–6

versus sadness, 246n19

and sanctification, 103

as sorrow, 253n18

spiritual, 98, 101, 102–3

stability, 107, 108

and transformation, 102

vice, 90–91, 94, 101, 102

Solomon, Robert, 3

spiritual battle, 26

spiritual disciplines. See disciplines

spiritual formation, 2–3, 9, 10, 28, 220–21

Stalker, James, 3

Thomas Aquinas

avarice/greed, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 125, 128, 129–30

general versus specific pride, 266n2

generosity/giving, 116, 117

glory, 46

gluttony, 173

honor, 46

liberality, 114, 116

lust, 203, 262n6, 263n32

magnanimity, 49

prodigality, 114, 115

pusillanimity, 1–2

sloth, 94, 95–96, 97, 98

and spiritual formation, 2–3

Summa theologiae, 26–27

vainglory, 49

vices, 3, 26–27, 33, 35–36

virtue, 3, 26–27, 35

wrath/anger, 140, 143–44, 146

tradition, 6, 12–13, 21–22, 206–7, 218. See also Christianity

tree metaphor, 31, 247n39

vainglory

admiration, 51

arrogance, 58

attention, 42–43, 45

audiences, 51

being known, 59–60, 249n38, 250n40

birth of a child, 53

boastfulness, 55–56

body image, 261n25

and Christ, 53–54, 57, 61–62

definition, 42–43

and envy, 83

and excellence, 249n7

glory, 46, 47–48, 50, 52, 64

and God, 51–53, 60, 64–65

goodness, 64

hiding, 59

and honor, 46–47

hypocrisy, 54–55

inappropriate objects, 50–51

on the list of vices, 44–45

love of novelties, 56

and magnanimity, 49–50

practices, 60–61, 62

relationships, 59

Romans, 52

and solitude, 61–62

spiritual life, 56–57

and virtue, 43, 58

vice

attraction of, 36–37

definition of, 7–8, 262n6, 266n2

psychologizing of, 4

study of, 2–3, 12–13, 16

See also capital vices; seven vices

virtue

acting according to, 10

Aquinas on, 3, 26–27, 35

cardinal, 23

and character, 7, 10, 23

and Christ, 11–12

Christianity, 11–12

Christlikeness, 15

church fathers, 23

defined, 7

disciplines, 232

habit, 9, 244n18

harmony, 9–10

list of, 10–11, 22, 27–28

middle way, 174, 260n13

moral formation, 9, 10

practice, 8–9

Protestantism, 28

seven, 22, 25–26

and vainglory, 43, 58

and vice, 3–4, 35, 173–74

Ware, Kallistos, 184–85

Wasserstein, Wendy, 4, 88

Waugh, Evelyn, 5, 88

Willard, Dallas, 28–29, 184, 190, 205, 224

Wisdom, book of, 23

wrath

anger, 138–40, 143–47, 151, 156–57, 159

blindness, 141–42

and Christ, 140, 153, 154–56, 161

control, 151

expression, 146, 147–48

gentleness, 161

and God, 139–40, 150–51, 153, 156, 259n42, 259n44

good and bad, 139–42, 144, 145, 158–59

and hope, 157, 158

humility, 160–61

inappropriate, 146

injustice, 140, 143, 145–46, 151–52, 155–56, 258n19

irritability, 146–47

kingdom of God, 150–51

lament, 157–58

object, 146, 156

offenses, 145–46

offspring vices, 148

physical, 143–44, 160

and pride, 160–61

resentment, 147

road rage, 159–60

secondary emotion, 157

and spiritual disciplines, 159–60

vice, 144, 148, 156–57

c29M