Rating
8

Qualities Applicable Well Structured Concrete Examples

Your Team Loves Mondays...Right?
A Guide for People Managers...Just in Case
Kristin A. Sherry | Black Rose Writing © 2020
Gallup surveys found that 50% of 7,200 associates who quit their jobs left because of their managers. Kristin A. Sherry reports that difficult managers often share certain important traits. They don't know how to identify their own style of delegating and directing. They lack the desire to garner better results by altering their behavior in response to other people, and they communicate poorly. Sherry suggests the three critical attributes of a good manager are "character, competence and caring." Put those in action, she says, to help your team love Mondays.
Take-Aways
· A Gallup study found that 50% of 7,200 associates who quit their jobs left because of their managers.
· Managers often can't identify their own style of delegating and reporting. · Good management comes from "character, competence and caring." · Managers should increase their awareness about how well managing other people suits them. · A manager's style affects his or her ability to work with employees. · Seven factors, including lack of flexibility and poor leadership, can rob a team of motivation.
Summary
A Gallup study found that 50% of 7,200 associates who quit their jobs left because of their managers. Yet most managers think they perform their jobs competently. Managers should consider three reasons why they need to evaluate their effectiveness continually:
1. Businesses see ineffective managers as stumbling blocks.
www.getabstract.com
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-05-27 03:09:15 CEST

2. People gossip about poor managers. 3. Weak managers get in their own way even as their associates quit and their teams' morale
plummets.
Most people don't distinguish between managers and leaders. However, both perform essential functions in different roles. Generally speaking, leaders conceptualize a broad strategic vision and managers implement it. All managers have shortcomings and, thus, can always upgrade their skills. As a coach working to help fledgling managers improve, author Kristin A. Sherry found that she spent most of her time assisting young managers in coping with their inadequate bosses. She found that faulty senior managers shared common negative behaviors:
· A tendency to micromanage. · A refusal to modify their behavior in response to different employees or situations. · Poor communication and a lack of clear expectations. · No desire to support subordinates. · Expressing more disapproval than approval. · A lack of self-confidence in their capacity as managers.
Managers often can't identify their own style of delegating and reporting.
Managers generally face predictable problems. They find it hard to identify their own style of delegating and directing. They may lack the desire to change how they work with other people, even if it would enable better results. And managers often encounter problems getting their message across.
"Your management approach should be consistent with your personality while learning to modify your behaviors."
In an article on management in Harvard Business Review, Edwin E. Ghiselli suggests that employees have little confidence in managers who adopt phony management styles that aren't aligned with their authentic character. Managers who want a particular outcome must modify how they interact with others while adopting a personally genuine approach. Their business success will depend ­ more than incompetent managers realize ­ on their personality as well as the personalities of the people they manage.
Good management comes from "character, competence and caring."
When asked to identify the most important characteristics of good managers, hundreds of people answering a poll on LinkedIn identified "3 Cs": character, competence and caring.
"Communication comes into play in management in two main ways: preventing and creating. You want to prevent drama and negativity, and you want to create safe space and accountability." (communications coach Lila Smith)

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-05-27 03:09:15 CEST

www.getabstract.com 2 of 6

A person's values, such as believing in truth and fair play, provide the structural underpinnings of his or her character. Managers who demonstrate commitment to their values can win the loyalty of their subordinates. Competence reflects a manager's ability to undertake his or her duties.
Caring derives from genuine regard for other people. A manager's associates must see evidence that their boss acknowledges their priorities. This includes concern for issues outside the workplace, such as those related to employees' families and children. Despite a manager's best intentions, miscommunication can create conflict. Focusing on the 3 Cs may not make managers into excellent leaders, but it gives them a solid base for growth and improvement.
Managers should increase their awareness about how well managing other people suits them.
As a manager, you can increase your conscious awareness of your skills, your competencies and your character. Consider whether you even enjoy managing people or identify which aspects of management you like. Gallup suggests that businesses leaders make mistakes in 82% of their hiring decisions when it comes to senior managers and that only 10% of people have the ability to manage people well (meaning that 90% don't). Despite this, 86% of managers believe they excel at their jobs.
"Awareness of your inherent strengths and challenges as a person and as a manager offers an opportunity for intentional personal and professional development to maximize your effectiveness."
As Gallup's research indicates, managers might fail to see their own shortcomings. On the other hand, perhaps they never received honest feedback about their managerial strengths and shortcomings from their own bosses.
A manager's style affects his or her ability to work with employees.
Reflect on the managers you've had. Consider their personality types. Most managers have primary and secondary characteristics that fit into more than one type. Just 15% of managers fall into only one personality profile. In your analysis, weigh four personality types and their priorities and preferences:
1. "D manager priorities" ­ D managers believe in accountability and bottom-line performance over all else. They function most successfully with people who help them achieve their targets, but they tend to disregard how other people feel. They might challenge the prevailing norms to fulfill their desire to achieve results.
2. "I manager priorities" ­ I managers encourage their teams to aspire to excellence. They acknowledge the group's achievements and savor working as part of a team. They highlight the need to push ahead.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-05-27 03:09:15 CEST

www.getabstract.com 3 of 6

3. "S manager priorities" ­ S managers tend to put up with more challenges and pride themselves on their trustworthiness. They like to function in an environment with low levels of antagonism. They work best with people who like other people and enjoy being part of a team. They are concerned about other people's needs and want everyone to work together peacefully.
4. "C manager priorities" ­ C managers highlight the need for rationality and for preserving a secure work environment. They believe in striving for quality, and they value colleagues with the same goals. They invest time in analyzing strategies to ensure precision. They question any suggestions that lack a solid rationale.
How a manager's style interacts with an associate's style can have a significant impact on how well they work together. For example, a D-style manager and a D-style direct report will probably have a productive working relationship. They hold similar priorities and can cooperate without friction when they share clear objectives and need to work swiftly.
A D-style manager and an I-style direct report have a mutual desire to get things done swiftly. But the I-style employee values value warmth and teamwork, so a D-style manager who prioritizes completing tasks above everything else ­ including his or her relationship with the employee ­ could cause the I-style subordinate to disengage.
A D-style manager might have a hard time with an S-style direct report; their priorities differ dramatically. If the D-style manager pushes too hard, the S-style associate could feel swamped. The D-style manager and a C-style associate share their love of a challenge. But a C-style employee prioritizes rationality and dependability. A manager who pushes ahead too fast could lead the Cstyle associate to feel doubtful about their shared goal.
Seven factors, including lack of flexibility and poor leadership, can rob a team of motivation.
Associates must motivate themselves; their managers can't do that for them and shouldn't try. However, incompetent or unaware managers can create conditions that undermine associates' motivation.
"Hiring outcomes improve when we explore not only the experience of candidates, but their aptitude, values, competencies and personality."
Michael Page, a British recruiting firm, highlights seven factors that can lead to associates feeling less motivated:
1. "Lack of flexibility" ­ Managers can gain associate loyalty and productivity by becoming more flexible about issues, such as how many days people can work at home. Further, acting with more flexibility often doesn't add to expenses and is thus an economical way to build motivation.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-05-27 03:09:15 CEST

www.getabstract.com 4 of 6

2. "Short-term objectives with no career vision" ­ Managers need their associates to do their jobs and to help the team achieve its immediate targets. Yet employees will feel less enthusiastic if they come to believe the organization doesn't reward them in the long term for their efforts. Managers must help their people see how fulfilling immediate targets contributes to the long-term goals of the organization. They should also help team members shape plans for their careers based on the company's requirements and what each person does best.
3. "Feeling undervalued" ­ The book Appreciate: Celebrating People, Inspiring Greatness by David Sturt, Todd Nordstrom, Kevin Ames and Gary Beckstrand reports on studies finding that associates value their managers' acknowledgment. Subordinates say that recognition encourages them to do outstanding work. Each person's need for recognition varies. Some individuals want acclaim, but others feel uneasy if acknowledged in public. For public recognition to have meaning to the recipient, managers must believe what they say. People also vary in the kinds of recognition they prefer, such as more money, more holiday time, more awards, and the like. Ask one of your team members if he or she feels recognized. What can you do to make sure that this person ­ and your other team members ­ feel that you value them?
4. "No development opportunities" ­ Most people want to grow and develop. The author's company, YouMap, did a survey which found that people prioritize "making a difference and meaningful work" (tied for first place), followed by "love/connection" in second place and "growth" in third place.
5. Poor leadership ­ Leaders often construct a vision and then encourage their people to implement it. Associates who work in businesses that lack a clear strategy find it hard to know where their organization wants to go, and they might have no idea how their work contributes to its overall goals. Robert Greenleaf, a founder of the modern servant leadership movement, explained, "The great leader has a ready answer to the profound question: What are you trying to do?" A leader can motivate and energize others with his or her vision of the future. Leaders can help others see ahead and inspire them with an overall sense of mission. Leaders who get trapped in the minutiae of everyday activities and lose their overall sense of purpose can also lose their associates' confidence. Leaders must create an environment that supports their vision and must communicate with their staff members so people can see how they can contribute.
6. "Conflict" ­ Whenever people gather, you have a high probability of discord. Managers can spur conflict either directly with their associates or they can create a climate which encourages associates to fight. Some managers may create a hostile workplace environment by choosing not to see the conflict or bullying that takes place.
7. "Unrealistic workload" ­ Associates could feel a loss of motivation if they have an excessive workload. They could also feel upset if they don't have enough work or enough interesting work. Managers could find it difficult to figure out an employee's workload. The solution is to ask associates if they feel overloaded before assigning them more work. Help your employees establish priorities among their assigned responsibilities.

BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-05-27 03:09:15 CEST

www.getabstract.com 5 of 6

About the Author
Kristin A. Sherry, managing partner of YouMap LLC, is a career consultant and speaker. She wrote the bestsellers YouMap and 5 Surprising Steps to Land the Job NOW!
Did you like this summary? Buy book or audiobook http://getab.li/39168
This document is restricted to the personal use of Jason Davis (jason.s.davis@accenture.com) getAbstract maintains complete editorial responsibility for all parts of this review. All rights reserved. No part of this review may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means ­ electronic, photocopying or otherwise ­ without prior written permission of getAbstract AG (Switzerland).
6 of 6
BatchLoginContext[cu=5482345,asp=3498,subs=0,free=0,lo=en,co=US] 2020-05-27 03:09:15 CEST

