24 Original Lessons with Study Q&A 


harles Haanel-miz °° | 


a a % “. 


* 


The Secret to Health, Wealth, and Love! 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2024 


httos://archive.org/details/masterkeysystemb0000unse 


The Master Key System 
By Charles Haanel 
1912 


BEFORE WE BEGIN: CHARLES HAANEL BIOGRAPBY...............:.:ccssssessersssessessrssooseesees + 


ee SS Eee ee eee 


INTRODUCTION ...:esccccscsocssscsscoscscsscenssssassosssevesssnspsesusccessscsecsessetnscssduscesrgeseunecesessssseszesssseecsesnesne 6 


PART ONE - STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS ........cccscscocsscossccsscoscscsesscsosscososccnccvensecenseceees 17 
INFRODUGTION= PAR TT WO orn. .ccsectssecstcevesssasessesovunssogecntess oereseses tetavessanictevercacstnmsteevartier 18 
PART WO) cocccccorscacschccsccscccccsaccacestessssceussnsccocnedovecssevepedacasmecacceseearstteecsrsarseeenemnasenat: dnetaaeaes iettene 19 
PART TWO STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS ........ccecccssesoccsvesssoosssevcessscccessavccssnocccossssnessesee 24 
INTRODUCTION =PART THREE ciccccsecccsccvecssocscoscsostscasssestonssescaisescusttsepecterssecersaassenesrtesrasncve 25 
PRATU TREE E Bice srcscesckcccoce ces tocettscsnssovsiiectoosecesevosteoscltcses ease sastsasseseneas late ee taslaetserttnesecemattemtera: amen 26 
PART THREE STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS scccccoceooescssseoscnsaspanassssevactcclestssedenesencouerszapas 30 
INTRODUGTION= PAR DT FOUR fct.ccccccascaccssseescestsonsstnsesdeveuncccsdasurenadbesaveseteduatustonetecveeneenestuenes 31 
DPA RUDE OUR Gorcctizasacerescsescsulotsstessestescgeoycecsdesssscedessseadsdducscedscasesategsacaoceeeessacaetectsaseeessassaeeemtetmisee 32 
PART. FOUR STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS <.....00s-ccsecsssoncsascescoscscaceosessennstgacesncsntacenetvsnne 36 
IN URODUGLION = PART BIV Eis. csccsssscecodessscsecstesocescceccsccecenssobeusteorecdocseccesnaterseeteersissartevetannaes aT 
BOAR DPEGEN Hicsecsteesssivtsstecessvekusectecenes sesgicousececesesssedt spsudevacceseuceuebatscosensdutessectetvescesceres seesnrartenvenmerrae 38 
PART FIVE STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS.s..cccccccvssocseecasssasyarencpecseseostecheebanenpenenceanaeekeanae 42 
INTRODUCTION = PART SEX Goi cicscecsarsssonccovengucsanstastacssescnastseneusceysensesagseoncauseceoettcanesscsaentnnees 43 
DAR TGSEX je crecccescesccensessscccvntvonss 4iWeetastvancctesvavehcaescdereousacesdeoes uate cettinccseadt cab eoeethcesenteaesteseereversesce 44 
PART SIX STUDYJQUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS sscccadtssestescteiectsetsctscosasdetscseralacessesseessevesecces snances 48 
INTRODUCTION = PART SEVEN cccccccssseccsscoscecesccsveserasacceatsacsteestacccavisecceneventetesscetedececsesetesanss 49 
BARUTISE VEN ccc ccescovertete ectcts tet aesledccteccccostah cettsarerttode toads ts sesnent coctgitartee setueieveravanccusaneesenstectoneees 50 
PART SEVEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS. .cc..sesccecscsccecdsvbsscicceeecesccesetocetactescessstvennsases 55 
INERODUCTION=]= PAR VP BIGHT |... torte aictcdttcosscocesesediscstaacsevansecccececssestersenctveieensecarsnseand 56 
AN ERED S ELL GS ED Dircncnnece cocescdssneousssdosustcaseees ctqncetttneteacerteatuve deneeececves  usttevasuuuenaaaagucoeaetestetenesesteenssemetests 57 
PART EIGHT STUDY QUESTIONS WITH: ANSWERS <i. ccsccsoscstancdesscscauscccaacsarcacuseuituccuccacedetueouseask 62 
INTRODUCTION = PAR TF NUNES 5 sccc.cosssccecsttosscncesnactecstncvoctetssuvcesesteacsectuaasectcatuccucecemeceeereceriaed 63 
PRICE NLU Eidssccclestzeinesseiessttocsensnesnptosnvevsesivchduaassaesiecchussidtectavacclavicts Racattrrteknce conedeeretemeetteen cere 64 
PART NINE STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS ....ccccccosssssssscsscscsesccccsscscscscccsscscesscssescossonesecs 69 
PN RODD GTION= DAR TcPEIN cccsscocantactorsacttesctecessssnesurecsecessksachoos ecetertivonceccervcesteeencninseseer tiene 70 
RAM ISMMU RUIN eco sescseestanyelieccasdcocsoerseteve cad essnccanauahenssvanbeeebecoantsteereceuttaceersemtetreeteectnttarcenceee peer eT ie 
PART TEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS. ......scccsssssssssessccesctsccscssssoosscosesscosscesscsssossecceses 75 
PNT RODUC TIONS PAR PELE EIN wisccessscssucesesettassacccuccoeeucctattces venacectuteetacetteeneetteeeamterteecaiees 76 
PP ISHEEL IGEN IEUN sogsecoseascasttssepsasvenssed sasedansceeetcenesesseusvenabunceseracsacaeetereuce can aeceecieeeemmeee ete cence fe) 
PART ELEVEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERG.......ccccccssssscssossssseccsscssssscccssssssscccesesscsccees 82 
INTRODUCTION = PAR TL WEL VE: scc.sccscsvecencscocsutavsusnaccesrevanscrettesesscenenccemeeemeentnecen aneiceaeee 83 
PU ASRMMULVY ROLLY Elis, sctaconssecareccasddssctossencestscebuncsuddeeteseicvstoastcnsnocnsteractesteteemacerercmeee cr aeTehre tener 84 
PART TWELVE STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERG......cccccssccosssscssssecscecscsccccsececssscscssecsescecees 88 
DN RODUCLION = PART THIRTEEN 5. ccccscovscecscuescocscossetastuectertactesttt acter nae retin: 89 
EZ NSPE EA LER. EU EGIN rat seossscaceoavscocsscadesedebacceosénoossncconstdetotssncuecsaspapuseenitien terterecee Rane 90 
PART THIRTEEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS ,.....ccccsccssseccssscceccesccsecccessccccccscscsseceeeee 94 
Pe OUUCTION = PART FOURTEEN sis...ssoscoseccessvacherectvsccneeectkicece met eee eee 95 
PRS BECO UIST IGIGN ccccerstacssoscsecssnassessustssszasecttussesdsessoseiseusveantecerestere cee Tt 96 
PART FOURTEEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS .......ccsccossecscssccecscossececscssccssesesccoeeees 100 
MN RODUGTION - PART FIRB THEN. ..,.ccssecscssonseseagdacsveastentestectecctact terre mrt aT RE Tae 101 


PAIR DER URNS Aye cuenecaatectictntccsszes ctoaascosuectecastaevee acs ee ca suet na nuit bee Tetadeced oediendb otha fiiellntnds 102 


PART FIFTEEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERG......cccccssssescsscescecercecsecessecsaceacecsecensecencs 106 
TN ERODE CLON = PART SUX DEBIN s.cssasyssessces:ccalsvisacsessonsvosanseatesttavesss ondencsanseisneesbavarerrieeds 107 
BN UN BIN ica Sunwos a soseGan apa hans un duane as cavastas ans daietuotvosspevins cout saiedh Gaalilas chaiennaln eto otaialtiqnalias 108 
PART SIXTEEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERG.......cscsccocssssssocecsscessescesessersossosecsosenseress 113 
PNUGRODE CLICIN = PAIR E SEV WIN EELEN us sasstsysesasocdsvadenarseia-sazindoeinsdasend-dunassaaassenagesdises osanand 114 
MALO SEW IREIN ORO Nite gtsthes aaa toes Sandesscsscetntencosieacsystsi0isereveqesivseousevcosicotosnsnstevavesbunnssvnerveloispteraah 115 
PART SEVENTEEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS......ccsssscessecescescescscessesseecenseeneeceees 120 
PN RU CERIN Grr ATCA EGS EL DECELIN csoasgscntcavsssousttvercocesteavansvnerdersusoseccueaees voscesencexsasoateurea 121 
PAC PRUAUREE NIU LY NecocsocoreetecireesorsectavtesccorsetspesaruatersvnrencsesytreretevetiysensestnstsTterestrsnen cterarstiamacaceiees 122 
PART EIGHTEEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERG.......ccssssssossssssssesccessssscenssessssessoessesees 126 
EINFRODUCPION - PART NENET EEN is..ccc.cccccttidsctsccsskeccstanecacseccuvbesesavanesattoeavebeccsstcvsasses 127 
Be ey EIN rec cacccontesocenesencsa calles shapixensbeasaassvcetateseddcsancekapekaloe boxe cesascanebetedtecciseespnrscessnen 128 
PART NINETEEN STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS ......cccscssssesssscesssssssscessecssensssesssoessoes 132 
INPRODUGC TIONS PAR TE WENDY ctticcck ton cspivicsiadsiucetectstacaleusssdarislecdsadle dsadiatetienieteteeaen 133 
BASE VVIBINGT Nias te-coossvhpiace tusecastiveasud%s cedshec-ansiovesoedespsadsdosacuuspdeuascusasendtennsquensescsopnaqiapyesnal sos tueael 134 
PART TWENTY STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS ........cccsscssscssscssessccscscscsscsescssscssscssoseees 138 
INTRODUCTION = PART UW ENT Y-ONED.. sssssecesscsssecesanssstact¢sanssesnsseosscocesancateassstcasssonanseenke 139 
BER ENV IRINLD VN Becetens occsitenssicsenducsstosassconatoapecciccccast<eautshasens cvascslacssestcensnenssessnanesisrasecesutars 140 
PART TWENTY-ONE STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS ......scccssssosssssssesssscesssscsscesssseossees 144 
PNT RODUCTTON = PART DWEN PVE TWO on. cccpccosscevsscesssctsccesSscenccacossersssscesstanseonereyceceosters 145 
PARC OR VION UY PIV) C) cocacstetvenceccssseesessecavatessitactiocoutacecssteacetersteucsseucoctuasensvenecscescecesatecrerestinesn? 146 
PART TWENTY-TWO STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS .......cccscsosesssccscsssssssesesereesseenreees 150 
INEFRODUCTION= PART TWEN PY=THREE  iicits.cc-ciscsdacevsscescdectorescseusssonsostenddecsdeasteeusseves 151 
PAIR ENDS PERE EB Wires. seaseccetthtnosucacteencsaleccudevealvacasctascsacstbotdassatecscnoctecadssadsetedsssesussdeosae 152 
PART TWENTY-THREE STUDY QUESTIONSG.....0:.:0.cccesccsscecscascscsoceoncccsccsocenssccssesccesesssosesesoes 156 
INTRODUCTION = PART TWENTY-FOUR .01...cccesscccessssavesscsvccssnsncscoscssoesvasrcoosnsosesssvosterosss 157 
PE Dig CVV TON DY cE CDUIRR cocaes ioccucacinaadh Vaccconcesscoavanassphersandinseckasesussoatacntosstisersucsdteosasipns ciesdschequesl 158 
PART TWENTY-FOUR STUDY QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERG........ccssssccesssecesseccesseeseescersceneres 163 


Before we begin: Charles Haanel Biography 


Charles F. Haanel was a noted American author and businessman who belonged to 
the American Scientific League, The Author’s League of America, The American 
Society of Psychical Research, the St. Louis Humane Society and the St. Louis Chamber 
of Commerce. 


Born in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Charles F. Haanel began his business career in St. 
Louis. He resigned his position in order to start his own company and eventually founded 
one of the largest conglomerates of his time. 


He wrote several books which were published in St. Louis by Psychology Publishing 
and by his Master Key Institute in New York. Mr. Haanel put into books the ideas and 
methods he used to gain his success. Besides the "Master Key System," which he wrote 
in 1912, he also wrote "Mental Chemistry" and "The New Psychology" 


By 1933 The Master Key System had sold over 200,000 copies and then seemingly 
disappeared. The Master Key System is one of the finest studies in self-improvement and 
higher consciousness ever written. Covering everything from how to get wealthy to how 
to get healthy, Mr. Haanel leaves no stone unturned. With precision, he elucidates on 
each topic with logic and rigor that not only leaves you feeling good, but also thinking 
good. The book was banned by the Church in 1933 and has been hidden away for seventy 
years! 


Rumor has it that while he was attending Harvard University, Bill Gates discovered 
and read The Master Key System by Charles F. Haanel. It was this book that inspired Bill 
Gates to drop out of the University and pursue his dream of "a computer on every 
desktop." You probably know the results. . . 


It is Silicon Valley's secret that almost every entrepreneur who made a fortune in 
recent years did so by studying the words Mr. Haanel penned over eighty years ago! 
Almost every millionaire and billionaire in the Valley read The Master Key System by 
Charles F. Haanel. Since this book was no longer in print until recently, copies of The 
Master Key System became a hot commodity in the Valley. 


The Master Key System is a system that teaches the ultimate principles, causes, 
effects, and laws that underlie all attainment and success. When you want to attain 
something, The Master Key System will show you how to get it. The results you will 
attain from using this system are so startling as to appear incredible. For this reason, more 
and more people are becoming students of The Master Key System than ever before 


In 24 parts, The Master Key sets out the fundamental principles of life and creative 
living, as Haanel came to understand and apply them. Basic to his teaching is the correct 
development and use of mental power -- the key to truly creative power and action, 
harmony and health, love and happiness, and abundant possibilities. Each part is meant to 


be studied like a correspondence course lesson, but this is also a book that can be opened | 
at random for whatever gem of advice your eyes happen to fall upon. 


This age-old wisdom was written by someone who could perceive and tap into 
Universal Mind but who seems to have no particular allegiance to any specific system of 
knowledge. Haanel's numbered common-sense messages still have a freshness 89 years 
after they were first assembled. 


Mr. Haanel died in 1949 and is buried in Bellafontaine Cemetery, St. Louis. Walter 
B. Stevens described Mr. Haanel as "a man of mature judgement, capable of taking a 


calm survey of life and correctly valuing its opportunities, its possibilities, its demands 
and obligations." 


INTRODUCTION 


Nature compels us all to move through life. We could not remain stationary however 
much we wished. Every right-thinking person wants not merely to move through life like 
a sound-producing, perambulating plant, but to develop — to improve — and to continue 
the development mentally to the close of physical life. 

This development can occur only through the improvement of the quality of 
individual thought and the ideals, actions and conditions that arise as a consequence. 
Hence a study of the creative processes of thought and how to apply them is of supreme 
importance to each one of us. This knowledge is the means whereby the volution of 
human life on earth may be hastened and uplifted in the process. 

Humanity ardently seeks “The Truth” and explores every avenue to it. In this process 
it has produced a special literature, which ranges the whole gamut of thought from the 
trivial to the sublime — up from Divination, through all the Philosophies, to the final lofty 
Truth of “The Master Key”. 

The “Master Key” is here given to the world as a means of tapping the great cosmic 
intelligence and attracting from it that which corresponds to the ambitions, and 
aspirations of each reader. 

Every thing and institution we see around us, created by human agency, had first to 
exist as a thought in some human mind. Thought therefore is constructive. Human 
thought is the spiritual power of the cosmos operating through its creature man. “The 
Master Key” instructs the reader how to use that power, and use it both constructively 
and creatively. The things and conditions we desire to become realities we must first 
create in thought. “The Master Key” explains and guides the process......... 

“The Master Key” teaching has hitherto been published in the form of a 
Correspondence Course of 24 lessons, delivered to students one per week for 24 weeks. 
The reader, who now receives the whole 24 parts at one times, is warned not to attempt to 
read the book like a novel, but to treat it as a course of study and conscientiously to 
imbibe the meaning of each part — reading and re-reading one part only per week before 
proceeding to the next. Otherwise the later parts will tend to be misunderstood and the 
reader’s time and money will be wasted. 

Used as thus instructed “The Master Key” will make of the reader a greater, better 
personality, and equipped with a new power tu achieve any worthy personal purpose and 
a new ability to enjoy life’s beauty and wonder. 


F.H. BURGESS 


FOREWORD 


Some men seem to attract success, power, wealth, attainment, with very little 
conscious effort; others conquer with great difficulty; still others fail altogether to reach 
their ambitions, desires and ideals. Why is this so: Why should some men realize their 
ambitions easily, others with difficulty, and still others not at all? The cause cannot be 
physical, else the most perfect men, physically, would be the most successful. The 
difference, therefore, must be mental - must be in the mind; hence mind must be the 
creative force, must constitute the sole difference between men. It is mind, therefore, 
which overcomes environment and every other obstacle in the path of men. 

When the creative power of thought is fully understood, its effect will be seen to be 
marvelous. But such results cannot be secured without proper application, diligence, and 
concentration. The student will find that the laws governing in the mental and spiritual 
world are as fixed and infallible as in the material world. To secure the desired results, 
then, it is necessary to know the law and to comply with it. A proper compliance with the 
law will be found to produce the desired result with invariable exactitude. The student 
who learns that power comes from within, that he is weak only because he has depended 
on help from outside, and who unhesitatingly throws himself on his own thought, 
instantly rights himself, stands erect, assumes a dominant attitude, and works miracles. 

It is evident, therefore, that he who fails to fully investigate and take advantage of the 
wonderful progress which is being made in this last and greatest science, will soon be as 
far behind as the man who would refuse to acknowledge and accept the benefits which 
have accrued to mankind through an understanding of the laws of electricity. 

Of course, mind creates negative conditions just as readily as favorable conditions, 
and when we consciously or unconsciously visualize every kind of lack, limitation and 
discord, we create these conditions; this is what many are unconsciously doing all the 
time. 

This law as well as every other law is no respecter of persons, but is in constant 
operation and is relentlessly bringing to each individual exactly what he has created; in 
other words, "Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap." 

Abundance, therefore, depends upon a recognition of the laws of Abundance, and the 
fact that Mind is not only the creator, but the only creator of all there is. Certainly nothing 
can be created, before we know that it can be created and then make the proper effort. 
There is no more Electricity in the world today than there was fifty years ago, but until 
someone recognized the law by which it could be made of service, we received no 
benefit; now that the law is understood, practically the whole world is lit by it. so with the 
law of Abundance; it is only those who recognize the law and place themselves in 
harmony with it, who share in its benefits. 

The scientific spirit now dominates every field of effort, relations of cause and effect 
are no longer ignored. 

The discovery of a region of law marked and epoch in human progress. It eliminated 
the element of uncertainty and caprice mens lives, and substituted law, reason and 
certitude. 

Men now understand that for every result there is an adequate and definite cause, so 
that when a given result is desired, they seek the condition by which alone this result may 


be attained. 


The basis upon which all law rests was discovered by inductive reasoning which 
consists of comparing a number of separate instances with one another until the common 
factor which gives rise to them all is seen. 

It is this method of study to which the civilized nations owe the greater part of their 
prosperity and the more valuable part of their knowledge; it has lengthened life, it has 
mitigated pain, it has spanned rivers, it has brightened the night with the splendor of day, 
extended the range of vision, accelerated motion, annihilated distance, facilitated 
intercourse, and enabled men to descend into the sea, and into the air, what wonder then 
that men soon endeavored to extend the blessings of this system of study to their method 
of thinking, so that when it became plainly evident that certain results followed a 
particular method of thinking it only remained to classify these results. 

This is method is scientific, and it is the only method by which we shall be permitted 
retain that degree of liberty and freedom which we have been accustomed to look upon as 
an inalienable right, because a people is safe at home and in the world only if national 
preparedness mean such things as growing surplus of health, accumulated efficiency in 
public and private business of whatever sort, continuous advance in the science and art of 
acting together, and the increasingly dominant endeavor to make all of these and all other 
aspects of national development center and revolve about ascending life, single and 
collective, for which science, art and ethics furnish guidance and controlling motives. 

The Master Key is based on absolute scientific truth and will unfold the possibilities 
that lie dormant in the individual, and teach how they may be brought into powerful 
action, to increase the person's effective capacity, bringing added energy, discernment, 
vigor and mental elasticity. The student who gains an understanding of the mental laws 
which re unfolded will come into the possession of an ability to secure results hitherto 
undreamed of, and which has rewards hardly to be expressed in words. 

It explains the correct use of both the receptive and active elements of the mental 
nature, and instructs the student in the recognition of opportunity; it strengthens the will 
and reasoning powers, and teaches the cultivation and best uses of imagination, desire, 
the emotions and the intuitional faculty. It gives initiative, tenacity of purpose, wisdom of 
choice, intelligent sympathy and a thorough enjoyment of life on its higher planes. 

The Master Key teaches the use of Mind Power, true Mind Power, not any of the 
substitutes and perversions; it has nothing to do with Hypnotism, Magic or any of the 
more or less fascinating deceptions by which many are led to think that something can be 
had for nothing. 

The Master Key cultivates and develops the understanding which will enable you to 
control the body and thereby the health. It improves and strengthens the Memory. It 
develops Insight, the kind of Insight which is so rare, the kind which is the distinguishing 
characteristic of every successful business man, the kind which enables men to see the 
possibilities as well as the difficulties in every situation, the kind which enables men to 
discern opportunity close at hand, for thousands fail to see opportunities almost within 
their grasp while they are industriously working with situations which under no 
possibility can be made to realize any substantial return. 

The Master Key develops Mental Power which means that others instinctively 
recognize that you are a person of force, of character - that they want to do what you 
want them 0 do; Aieans that you attract men and things to you; that you are what some 
people call "lucky", that "things" come you way' that you have come into an 


understanding of the fundamental laws of Nature, and have put yourself in harmony with 
them; that you are in tune with Infinite; that you understand the law of attraction, the 
Natural laws of growth, and the Psychological laws on which all advantages in the he 
social and business world rest. 

Mental Power is creative power, it gives you the ability to create for yourself; it does 
not mean the ability to take something away from some one else. Nature never does 
things that way. Nature makes two blades for grass grow where one grew before, and 
Mind Power enables men to do the same thing. 

The Master Key develops insight and sagacity increased independence, the ability and 
disposition to be helpful’ it destroys distrust, depression, fear, melancholia, and every 
form of lack limitation and weakness, including pain and disease; it awakens buried 
talents, supplies initiative, force, energy, vitality - it awakens an appreciation of the 
beautiful in Art, Literature and Science. 

It has changed the lives of thousands of men and women, by substituting definite 
principles for uncertain and hazy methods - and principles for the foundation upon which 
every system of efficiency must rest. 

Elbert Gary, the chairman of the United States Steel Corporation, said "The services 
of advisors, instructors, efficiency experts in successful management are indispensable to 
most business enterprises of magnitude, but I deem the recognition and adoption of right 
principles vastly more importance. "The Master Key teaches right principles, and 
suggests methods for making a practical application of the principles; in that it differs 
from every other course of study. It teaches that the only possible value which can attach 
to any principle is 1n its application. Many read books, take home study courses, attend 
lectures all their lives without ever making any progress in demonstrating the value of the 
principles involved. The Master Key suggests methods by which the value of the 
principles taught may be demonstrated and put in actual practice in the daily experience. 

There is a change in the thought of the world. This change is silently transpiring in 
our midst, and is more important than any which the world has undergone since the 
downfall of Paganism. 

The present revolution in the opinions of all classes of men, the highest and most 
cultured of men as well as those of the laboring class, stands unparalleled in the history of 
the world. 

Science has of late mad such vast discoveries, has revealed such an infinity of 
resources, has unveiled such enormous possibilities and such unsuspected forces, that 
scientific men more and more hesitate to affirm certain theories as established and 
indubitable or to deny certain other theories as absurd or impossible, and so a new 
civilization is being born' customs, creeds, and cruelty are passing; vision, faith and 
service are taking their place. The fetters of tradition are being melted off from humanity, 
and as the dross of materialism is being consumed, thought is being liberated and truth is 
rising full orbed before an astonished multitude. 

The whole world is on the eve of a new consciousness, a new power and a new 
consciousness, a new power and a new realization of the resources within the self. The 
last century saw the most magnificent material progress in history. The present century 
will produce the greatest progress in mental and spiritual power. 

Physical Science has resolved matter into molecules, molecules into atoms, atoms 
into energy, and it has remained for Sir Ambrose Fleming, in an address before the Royal 


Institution, to resolve this energy into mind. He says: "In its ultimate essence, energy may 
be incomprehensible by us except as an exhibition of the direct operation of that which 
we call Mind or Will." 

Let us see what are the most powerful forces in Nature. In the mineral world 
everything is solid and fixed. In the animal and vegetable kingdom it is in a state of flux, 
forever changing, always being created and recreated. In the atmosphere we find heat, 
light and energy. Each realm becomes finer and more spiritual as we pass from the visible 
to the invisible, from the coarse to the fine, from the low potentiality to high potentiality. 
When we reach the invisible we find energy in its purest and most volatile state. 

And as the most powerful forces of Nature are the invisible forces, so we find that the 
most powerful forces of man are his invisible forces, his spiritual force, and the only way 
in which the spiritual force can manifest is through the process of thinking. Thinking 1s 
the only activity which the spirit possesses, and thought is the only product of thinking. 

Addition and subtraction are therefore spiritual transactions; reasoning is a spiritual 
process; ideas are spiritual conceptions; questions are spiritual searchlights and logic, 
argument and philosophy is spiritual machinery. 

Every thought brings into action certain physical tissue, parts of the brain, nerve or 
muscle. This produces an actual physical change in the construction of the tissue. 
therefore it is only necessary to have a certain number of thoughts on a given subject in 
order to bring about a complete change in the physical organization of a man. 

This is the process by which failure is changed to success. Thoughts of courage, 
power, inspiration, harmony, are substituted for thoughts of failure, despair, lack, 
limitation and discord, and as these thoughts take root, the physical tissue 1s changed and 
the individual sees life in a new light, old things have actually passed away, all things 
have become new, he is born again, this time born of the spirit, life has a new meaning 
for him, he is reconstructed and is filled with joy, confidence, hope, energy. He sees 
opportunities for success to which he was heretofore blind. He recognizes possibilities 
which before had no meaning for him. The thoughts of success with which he has been 
impregnated are radiated to those around him, and they in turn help him onward and 
upward; he attract to him new and successful associates, and this in turn changes his 
environment; so that by this simple exercise of thought, a man changes not only himself, 
but his environment, circumstances and conditions. 

You will see, you must see, that we are at the dawn of a new day; that the possibilities 
are so wonderful, so fascinating, so limitless as to be almost bewildering. A century ago 
any man with and aeroplane or even a Gatling gun could have annihilated a whole army 
equipped with the implements of warfare then in use. So it is at present. Any man with a 
knowledge of the possibilities contained in the Master Key has an inconceivable 
advantage over the multitude. 


10 


INTRODUCTION - PART ONE 


It is my privilege to enclose herewith Part One of The Master Key System. Would 
you bring into your life more power, get the power consciousness, more health, get the 
health consciousness, more happiness, get the happiness consciousness. Live the spirit of 
these things until they become yours by right. It will then become impossible to keep 
them from you. The things of the world are fluid to a power within man by which he 
rules 
them. 

You need not acquire this power. You already have it. But you want to understand it; 
you want to use it; you want to control it; you want to impregnate yourself with it, so that 
you can go forward and carry the world before you. 

Day by day as you go on and on, as you gain momentum, as your inspiration deepens, 
as your plans crystallize, as you gain understanding, you will come to realize that this 
world is no dead pile of stones and timber, but that it is a living thing! It is made up of the 
beating hearts of humanity. It is a thing of life and beauty. 

It is evident that it requires understanding to work with material of this description, 
but those who come into this understanding, are inspired by a new light, a new force, they 
gain confidence and greater power each day, they realize their hopes and their dreams 
come true, life has a deeper, fuller, clearer meaning than before. 

And, now, Part One.... 


Lf 


10. 


PART ONE 


That much gathers more is true on every plane of existence and that loss leads to 
greater loss is equally true. 


Mind is creative, and conditions, environment and all experiences in life are the 
result of our habitual or predominant mental attitude. 


The attitude of mind necessarily depends upon what we think. Therefore, the 
secret of all power, all achievement and all possession depends upon our method 
of thinking. 


This is true because we must "be" before we can "do," and we can "do" only to 
the extent which we "are," and what we "are" depends upon what we "think." 


We cannot express powers that we do not possess. The only way by which we 
may secure possession of power is to become conscious of power, and we can 
never become conscious of power until we learn that all power is from within. 


There is a world within — a world of thought and feeling and power; of light and 
life and beauty and, although invisible, its forces are mighty. 


The world within is governed by mind. When we discover this world we shall 
find the solution for every problem, the cause for every effect; and since the world 
within 1s subject to our control, all laws of power and possession are also within 
our control. 


The world without is a reflection of the world within. What appears without is 
what has been found within. In the world within may be found infinite Wisdom, 
infinite Power, infinite Supply of all that is necessary, waiting for unfoldment, 
development and expression. If we recognize these potentialities in the world 
within they will take form in the world without. 


Harmony in the world within will be reflected in the world without by 
harmonious conditions, agreeable surroundings, the best of everything. It is the 
foundation of health and a necessary essential to all greatness, all power, all 
attainment, all achievement and all success. 


Harmony in the world within means the ability to control our thoughts, and to 
determine for ourselves how any experience is to affect us. 


We 


11. 


12, 


13. 


14. 


15; 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


Harmony in the world within results in optimism and affluence; affluence within 
results in affluence without. 


The world without reflects the circumstances and the conditions of the 
consciousness within. 


If we find wisdom in the world within, we shall have the understanding to discern 
the marvelous possibilities that are latent in this world within, and we shall be 
given the power to make these possibilities manifest in the world without. 


As we become conscious of the wisdom in the world within, we mentally take 
possession of this wisdom, and by taking mental possession we come into actual 
possession of the power and wisdom necessary to bring into manifestation the 
essentials necessary for our most complete and harmonious development. 


The world within is the practical world in which the men and women of power 
generate courage, hope, enthusiasm, confidence, trust and faith, by which they are 
given the fine intelligence to see the vision and the practical skill to make the 
vision real. 


Life 1s an unfoldment, not accretion. What comes to us in the world without is 
what we already possess in the world within. 


All possession is based on consciousness. All gain is the result of an accumulative 
consciousness. All loss is the result of a scattering consciousness. 


Mental efficiency is contingent upon harmony; discord means confusion; 
therefore, he who would acquire power must be in harmony with Natural Law. 


We are related to the world without by the objective mind. The brain is the organ 
of this mind and the cerebro-spinal system of nerves puts us in conscious 
communication with every part of the body. This system of nerves responds to 
every sensation of light, heat, odor, sound and taste. 


When this mind thinks correctly, when it understands the truth, when the thoughts 
sent through the cerebro-spinal nervous system to the body are constructive, these 
sensations are pleasant, harmonious. 


The result is that we build strength, vitality and all constructive forces into our 
body, but it is through this same objective mind that all distress, sickness, lack, 
limitation and every form of discord and in harmony is admitted to our lives. It is 


13 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


therefore through the objective mind, by wrong thinking, that we are related to all 
destructive forces. 


We are related to the world within by the subconscious mind. The solar plexus is 
the organ of this mind; the sympathetic system of nerves presides over all 
subjective sensations, such as joy, fear, love, emotion, respiration, imagination 
and all other subconscious phenomena. It is through the subconscious that we are 
connected with the Universal Mind and brought into relation with the Infinite 
constructive forces of the Universe. 


It is the coordination of these two centers of our being, and the understanding of 
their functions, which is the great secret of life. With this knowledge we can bring 
the objective and subjective minds into conscious cooperation and thus coordinate 
the finite and the infinite. Our future is entirely within our own control. It is not at 
the mercy of any capricious or uncertain external power. 


All agree that there is but one Principle or Consciousness pervading the entire 
Universe, occupying all space, and being essentially the same in kind at every 
point of its presence. It is all powerful, all wisdom and always present. All 
thoughts and things are within Itself. It is all in all. 


There is but one consciousness in the universe able to think; and when it thinks, 
its thoughts become objective things to it. As this Consciousness is omnipresent, 
it must be present within every individual; each individual must be a 
manifestation of that Omnipotent, Omniscient and Omnipresent Consciousness. 


As there is only one Consciousness in the Universe that is able to think it 
necessarily follows that your consciousness is identical with the Universal 
Consciousness, or, in other words, all mind is one mind. There is no dodging this 
conclusion. 


The consciousness that focuses in your brain cells is the same consciousness 
which focuses 1n the brain cells of every other individual. Each individual is but 
the individualization of the Universal, the Cosmic Mind. 


The Universal Mind is static or potential energy; it simply is; it can manifest only 
through the individual, and the individual can manifest only through the 
Universal. They are one. 


The ability of the individual to think is his ability to act on the Universal and 
bring it into manifestation. Human consciousness consists only in the ability of 
man to think. Mind in itself is believed to be a subtle form of static energy, from 


14 


30. 


31. 


32. 


33. 


34. 


35. 


36. 


Sif 


which arises the activities called 'thought, ' which is the dynamic phase of mind. 
Mind is static energy, thought is dynamic energy -the two phases of the same 
thing. Thought is therefore the vibratory force formed by converting static mind 
into dynamic mind. 


As the sum of all attributes are contained in the Universal Mind, which is 
Omnipotent, Omniscient and Omnipresent, these attributes must be present at all 
times in their potential form in every individual. Therefore, when the individual 
thinks, the thought is compelled by its nature to embody itself in an objectivity or 
condition which will correspond with its origin. 


Every thought therefore is a cause and every condition an effect; for this reason it 
is absolutely essential that you control your thoughts so as to bring forth only 
desirable conditions. 


All power is from within, and is absolutely under your control; it comes through 
exact knowledge and by the voluntary exercises of exact principles. 


It should be plain that when you acquire a thorough understanding of this law, and 
are able to control your thought processes, you can apply it to any condition; in 
other words, you will have come into conscious cooperation with Omnipotent law 
which is the fundamental basis of all things. 


The Universal Mind is the life principle of every atom which is in existence; 
every atom is continually striving to manifest more life; all are intelligent, and all 
are seeking to carry out the purpose for which they were created. 


A majority of mankind lives in the world without; few have found the world 
within, and yet it is the world within that makes the world without; it is therefore 
creative and everything which you find in your world without has been created by 
you in the world within. 


This system will bring you into a realization of power which will be yours when 
you understand this relation between the world without and the world within. The 
world within is the cause, the world without the effect; to change the effect you 
must change the cause. 


You will at once see that this is a radically new and different idea; most men try 
to change effects by working with effects. They fail to see that this is simply 
changing one form of distress for another. To remove discord, we must remove 
the cause, and this cause can be found only in the world within. 


38. 


39. 


40. 


41. 


42. 


43. 


44. 


45. 


All growth is from within. This is evident in all nature. Every plant, every animal, 
every human is a living testimony to this great law, and the error of the ages 1s in 
looking for strength or power from without. 


The world within is the Universal fountain of supply, and the world without 1s the 
outlet to the stream. Our ability to receive depends upon our recognition of this 
Universal Fountain, this Infinite Energy of which each individual is an outlet, and 
so is one with every other individual. 


Recognition is a mental process, mental action is therefore the interaction of the 
individual upon the Universal Mind, and as the Universal Mind is the intelligence 
which pervades all space and animates all living things, this mental action and 
reaction is the law of causation, but the principle of causation does not obtain in 
the individual but in the Universal Mind. It is not an objective faculty but a 
subjective process, and the results are seen in an infinite variety of conditions and 
experiences. 


In order to express life there must be mind; nothing can exist without mind. 
Everything which exists is some manifestation of this one basic substance from 
which and by which all things have been created and are continually being 
recreated. 


We live in a fathomless sea of plastic mind substance. This substance is ever alive 
and active. It is sensitive to the highest degree. It takes form according to the 
mental demand. Thought forms the mold or matrix from which the substance 
expresses. 


Remember that it is in the application alone that the value consists, and that a 
practical understanding of this law will substitute abundance for poverty, wisdom 
for ignorance, harmony for discord and freedom for tyranny, and certainly there 
can be no greater blessing than these from a material and social standpoint. 


Now make the application: Select a room where you can be alone and 
undisturbed; sit erect, comfortably, but do not lounge; let your thoughts roam 
where they will but be perfectly still for from fifteen minutes to half an hour: 
continue this for three or four days or for a week until you secure full control of 
your physical being. 


Many will find this extremely difficult; others will conquer with ease, but it is 
absolutely essential to secure complete control of the body before you are ready to 
progress. Next week you will receive instructions for the next step; in the 
meantime you must have mastered this one. 


PART ONE - Study Questions with Answers 


1. What is the world without in its relation to the world within? The world without is 
a reflection of the world within. 

2. Upon what does all possession depend? All possession is based on consciousness. 

3. Hew is the individual related to the objective world? The individual is related to the 
objective world by the objective mind; the brain is the organ of this mind. 

4. How is he related to the Universal Mind? He is related to the Universal Mind by the 
subconscious mind; the Solar Plexus is the organ of this mind. 

5. What is the Universal Mind? The niwersak Mind is the life principle of every atom 
which is in existence. 

6. How can the Individual act on the Universal? The ability of the individual to think 
is his ability to act upon the Universal and bring it into manifestation. 

7. What is the result of this action and interaction? The result of this action and 
interaction 1s cause and effect; every thought is a cause and every condition an effect. 

8. How are harmonious and desirable conditions secured? Harmonious and desirable 
conditions are obtained by right thinking. 

9. What is the cause of all discord, inharmony, lack and limitation? Discord, 
inharmony, lack and limitation are the result of wrong thinking. 

10. What is the source of all powers? The source of all power is the world within, the 
Universal Fountain of Supply, the Infinite Energy of which each individual is an outlet. 


17 


INTRODUCTION - PART TWO 


Our difficulties are largely due to confused ideas and ignorance of our true interests. 
The great task is to discover the laws of nature to which we are to adjust ourselves. Clear 
thinking and moral insight are, therefore, of incalculable value. All processes, even those 
of thought, rest on solid foundations. 

The keener the sensibilities, the more acute the judgment, the more delicate the taste, 
the more refined the moral feelings, the more subtle the intelligence, the loftier the 
aspiration--the purer and more intense are the gratifications which existence yields. 
Hence it is that the study of the best that has been thought in the world gives supreme 
pleasure. 

The powers, uses and possibilities of the mind under the new interpretations are 
incomparably more wonderful that the most extravagant accomplishment, or even dreams 
of material progress. Thought is energy. Active thought is active energy; concentrated 
thought is a concentrated energy. Thought concentrated on a definite purpose becomes 
power. This is the power which is being used by those who do not believe in the virtue of 
poverty, or the beauty of self-denial. They perceive that this 1s the talk of weaklings. 

The ability to receive and manifest this power depends upon the ability to recognize 
the Infinite Energy ever dwelling in man, constantly creating and recreating his body and 
mind, and ready at any moment to manifest through him in any needful manner. In exact 
proportion to the recognition of this truth will be the manifestation in the outer life of the 
individual. 

Part two explains the method by which this is accomplished. 


PART TWO 


The operations of the mind are produced by two parallel modes of activity, the 
one conscious, and the other subconscious. Professor Davidson says: "He who 
thinks to illuminate the whole range of mental action by the light of his own 
consciousness is not unlike the one who should go about to illuminate the 
universe with a rushlight." 


The subconscious' logical processes are carried on with a certainty and regularity 
which would be impossible if there existed the possibility of error. Our mind is so 
designed that it prepares for us the most important foundations of cognition, 
whilst we have not the slightest apprehension of the modus operandi. 


The subconscious soul, like a benevolent stranger, works and makes provision for 
our benefit, pouring only the mature fruit into our lap; thus ultimate analysis of 
thought processes shows that the subconscious is the theatre of the most important 
mental phenomena. 


It is through the subconscious that Shakespeare must have perceived, without 
effort, great truths which are hidden from the conscious mind of the student; that 
Phidias fashioned marble and bronze; that Raphael painted Madonnas and 
Beethoven composed symphonies. 


Ease and perfection depend entirely upon the degree in which we cease to depend 
upon the consciousness; playing the piano, skating, operating the typewriter, the 
skilled trades, depend for their perfect execution on the process of the sub- 
conscious mind. The marvel of playing a brilliant piece on the piano, while at the 
same time conducting a vigorous conversation, shows the greatness of our 
subconscious powers. 


We are all aware how dependent we are upon the subconscious, and the greater, 
the nobler, the more brilliant our thoughts are, the more it 1s obvious to ourselves 
that the origin lies beyond our ken. We find ourselves endowed with tact, instinct, 
sense of the beautiful in art, music, etc., or whose origin or dwelling place we are 
wholly unconscious. 


The value of the subconscious is enormous; it inspires us; it warns us; it furnishes 
us with names, facts and scenes from the storehouse of memory. It directs our 
thoughts, tastes, and accomplishes tasks so intricate that no conscious mind, even 
if it had the power, has the capacity for. 


We can walk at will; we can raise the arm whenever we choose to do so; we can 


give our attention through eye or ear to any subject at pleasure. On the other hand, 
we cannot stop our heartbeats nor the circulation of the blood, nor the growth of 


19 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15: 


16. 


stature, nor the formation of nerve and muscle tissue, nor the building of the 
bones, nor many other important vital processes. 


If we compare these two sets of action, the one decreed by the will of the moment, 
and the other proceeding in majestic, rhythmic course, subject to no vascillation, 
but constant at every moment, we stand in awe of the latter, and ask to have the 
mystery explained. We see at once that these are the vital processes of our 
physical life, and we cannot avoid the inference that these all-important functions 
are designedly withdrawn from the domain of our outward will with its variations 
and transitions, and placed under the direction of a permanent and dependable 
power within us. 


Of these two powers, the outward and changeable has been termed the "Conscious 
Mind," or the "Objective Mind" (dealing with outward objects). The interior 
power is called the "Subconscious Mind," or the "Subjective Mind," and besides 
its work on the mental plane it controls the regular functions which make physical 
life possible. 


It is necessary to have a clear understanding of their respective functions on the 
mental plane, as well as of certain other basic principles. Perceiving and operating 
through the five physical senses, the conscious mind deals with the impressions 
and objects of the outward life. 


It has the faculty of discrimination, carrying with it the responsibility of choice. It 
has the power of reasoning--whether inductive, deductive, analytical or 
syllogistic--and this power may be developed to a high degree. It is the seat of the 
will with all the energies that flow therefrom. 


Not only can it impress other minds, but it can direct the subconscious mind. In 
this way the conscious mind becomes the responsible ruler and guardian of the 
subconscious mind. It is this high function which can completely reverse 
conditions in your life. 


It is often true that conditions of fear, worry, poverty, disease, inharmony and 
evils of all kinds dominate us by reason of false suggestions accepted by the 
unguarded subconscious mind. All this the trained conscious mind can entirely 
prevent by its vigilant protective action. It may properly be called "the watchman 
at the gate" of the great subconscious domain. 


One writer has expressed the chief distinction between the two phases of mind 


thus: "Conscious mind is reasoning will. Subconscious mind is instinctive desire, 
the result of past reasoning will." 


The subconscious mind draws just and accurate inferences from premises 


furnished from outside sources. Where the premise is true, the subconscious mind 
reaches a faultless conclusion, but, where the premise or suggestion is an error 


20 


the whole structure falls. The subconscious mind does not engage in the process 
of proving. It relies upon the conscious mind, "the watchman at the gate," to 
guard it from mistaken impressions. 


17. Receiving any suggestions as true, the subconscious mind at once proceeds to act 
thereon in the whole domain of its tremendous field of work. The conscious mind 
can suggest either truth or error. If the latter, it is at the cost of wide-reaching peril 
to the whole being. 


18. The conscious mind ought to be on duty during every waking hour. When the 
"watchman" is "off guard," or when its calm judgment is suspended, under a 
variety of circumstances, then the subconscious mind is unguarded and left open 
to suggestion from all sources. During the wild excitement of panic, or during the 
height of anger, or the impulses of the irresponsible mob, or at any other time of 
unrestrained passion, the conditions are most dangerous. The sub- conscious mind 
is then open to the suggestion of fear, hatred, selfishness, greed, self- depreciation 
and other negative forces, derived from surrounding persons or circumstances. 
The result is usually unwholesome in the extreme, with effects that may endure to 
distress it for a long time. Hence, the great importance of guarding the 
subconscious mind from false impressions. 


19. The subconscious mind perceives by intuition. Hence, its processes are rapid. It 
does not wait for the slow methods of conscious reasoning. In fact, it can not 
employ them. 


20. The subconscious mind never sleeps, never rests, any more than does your heart, 
or your blood. It has been found that by plainly stating to the subconscious mind 
certain specific things to be accomplished, forces are set in operation that lead to 
the result desired. Here, then, is a source of power which places us in touch with 
Omnipotence. Here in is a deep principle which is well worth our most earnest 
study. 


21. The operation of this law is interesting. Those who put it into operation find that 
when they go out to meet the person with whom they anticipate a difficult 
interview, something has been there before them and dissolved the supposed 
differences; everything is changed; all is harmonious; they find that when some 
difficult business problem presents itself they can afford to make delay and 
something suggests the proper solution; everything is properly arranged; in fact, 
those who have learned to trust the subconscious find that they have infinite 
resources at their command. 


22. The subconscious mind is the seat of our principles and our aspirations. It is the 


fount of our artistic and altruistic ideals. These instincts can only be overthrown 
by an elaborate and gradual process of undermining the innate principles. 


21 


23. 


24. 


20s 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


The subconscious mind can not argue controversially. Hence, if it has accepted 
wrong suggestions, the sure method of overcoming them is by the use of a strong 
counter suggestion, frequently repeated, which the mind must accept, thus 
eventually forming new and healthy habits of thought and life, for the 
subconscious mind is the seat of Habit. That which we do over and over becomes 
mechanical; it is no longer an act of judgment, but has worn its deep grooves 1n 
the subconscious mind. This is favorable for us if the habit be wholesome and 
right. If it be harmful, and wrong, the remedy is to recognize the omnipotence of 
the subconscious mind and suggest present actual freedom. The subconscious 
being creative and one with our divine source will at once create the freedom 
suggested. 

To sum up: The normal functions of the subconscious on the physical side have to 
do with the regular and vital processes, with the preservation of life and the 
restoration of health; with the care of offspring, which includes an instinctive 
desire to preserve all life and improve conditions generally. 


On the mental side, it is the storehouse of memory; it harbors the wonderful 
thought messengers, who work, unhampered by time or space; it is the fountain of 
the practical initiative and constructive forces of life: It is the seat of habit. 


On the spiritual side, it is the source of ideals, of aspiration, of the imagination, 
and is the channel through which we recognize our Divine Source, and in 
proportion as we recognize this divinity do we come into an understanding of the 
source of power. 


Some one may ask: "How can the subconscious change conditions?" The reply is, 
because the subconscious is a part of the Universal Mind and a part must be the 
same in kind and quality as the whole; the only difference is one of degree. The 
whole, as we know, is creative, in fact, it is the only creator there is, consequently, 
we find that mind is creative, and as thought is the only activity which the mind 
possesses thought must necessarily be creative also. 


But we shall find that there is a vast difference between simply thinking, and 
directing our thought consciously, systematically and constructively; when we do 
this we place our mind in harmony with the Universal Mind, we come in tune 
with the Infinite, we set in operation the mightiest force in existence, the creative 
power of the Universal Mind. This, as everything else, is governed by natural law, 
and this law is the "Law of attraction," which is that Mind is creative, and will 
automatically correlate with its object and bring it into manifestation. 


Last week I gave you an exercise for the purpose of securing control of the 
physical body; if you have accomplished this you are ready to advance. This time 
you will begin to control your thought. Always take the same room, the same 
chair, and the same position, if possible. In some cases it is not convenient to take 
the same room, in this case simply make the best use of such conditions as may be 
available. Now be perfectly still as before, but inhibit all thought; this will give 


[35> 


you control over all thoughts of care, worry and fear, and will enable you to 


entertain only the kind of thoughts you desire. Continue this exercise until you 
gain complete mastery. 


30. You will not be able to do this for more that a few moments at a time, but the 
exercise is valuable, because it will be a very practical demonstration of the great 


number of thoughts which are constantly trying to gain access to your mental 
world. 


31. Next week you will receive instructions for an exercise which may be a little more 
interesting, but it is necessary that you master this one first. 


"Cause and effect is as absolute and undeviating in the hidden realm of thought as in the 


world of visible and material things. Mind is the master weaver, both of the interior 
garment of character and the outer garment of circumstance." -- James Allen 


23 


PART TWO Study Questions with Answers 


11. What are the two modes of mental activity? Conscious and subconscious. 

12. Upon what do ease and perfection depend? Ease and perfection depend entirely 
upon the degree in which we cease to depend upon the conscious mind. 

13. What is the value of the subconscious? It is enormous; it guides us, warns us, it 
controls the vital processes and is the seat of memory. 

14. What are some of the functions of the conscious mind? It has the faculty of 
discrimination; it has the power of reasoning; it is the seat of the will and may impress 
the 

subconscious. 

15. How has the distinction between the conscious and subconscious been 
expressed? "Conscious mind is reasoning will. Subconscious mind is instinctive desire, 
the result of past reasoning will." 

16. What method is necessary in order to impress the subconscious? Mentally state 
what is wanted. 

17. What will be the result? If the desire is in harmony with the forward movement of 
the great Whole, forces will be set in motion which will bring about the result. 

18. What is the result of the operation of this law? Our environment reflects conditions 
corresponding to the predominant mental attitude which we entertain. 

19. What names has been given to this law? The Law of Attraction. 

20. How is the law stated? Thought is a creative energy, and will automatically correlate 
with is object and bring it into manifestation. 


24 


INTRODUCTION - PART THREE 


You have found that the Individual may act on the Universal, and that the result of 
this action and interaction is cause and effect. Thought, therefore, is the cause, and the 
experiences with which you meet in life are the effect. 

Eliminate, therefore, any possible tendency to complain of conditions as they have 
been, or as they are, because it rests with you to change them and make them what you 
would like them to be. 

Direct your effort to a realization of the mental resources, always at your command, 
from which all real and lasting power comes. 

Persist in this practice until you come io a realization of the fact that there can be no 
failure in the accomplishment of any proper object in life if you but understand your 
power and persist in your object, because the mind-forces are ever ready to lend 
themselves to a purposeful will, in the effort to crystalize thought and desire into actions, 
events and conditions. 

Whereas in the beginning of each function of life and each action is the result of 
conscious thought, the habitual actions become automatic and the thought that controls 
them passes into the realm of the subconscious; yet it is just as intelligent as before. It is 
necessary that it become automatic, or subconscious, in order that the self-conscious 
mind may attend to other things. The new actions will, however, in their turn, be come 
habitual, then automatic, then subconscious in order that the mind again may be freed 
from this detail and advanced to still other activities. 

When you realize this, you will have found a source of power which will enable you 
to take care of any situation in life which may develop. 


25 


PART THREE 


The necessary interaction of the conscious and subconscious mind requires a 
similar interaction between the corresponding systems of nerves. Judge Troward 
indicates the very beautiful method in which this interaction is effected. He says: 
The cerebro-spinal system is the organ of the conscious mind and the sympathetic 
is the organ of the subconscious. The cerebro-spinal is the channel through which 
we receive conscious perception from the physical senses and exercise control 
over the movements of the body. This system of nerves has its centre in the brain. 


The Sympathetic System has its centre in a ganglionic mass at the back of the 
stomach known as the Solar Plexus, and is the channel of that mental action 
which unconsciously supports the vital functions of the body. 


The connection between the two systems is made by the vagus nerve which 
passes out of the cerebral region as a portion of the voluntary system to the 
thorax, sending out branches to the heart and lungs, and finally passing through 
the diaphragm, it loses its outer coating and becomes identified with the nerves of 
the Sympathetic System, so forming a connecting link between the two and 
making man physically a "single entity”. 


We have seen that every thought is received by the brain, which is the organ of 
the conscious; it is here subjected to our power of reasoning. When the objective 
mind has been satisfied that the thought is true it is sent to the Solar Plexus, or the 
brain of the subjective mind, to be made into our flesh, to be brought forth into the 
world as reality. It is then no longer susceptible to any argument whatever. The 
subconscious mind cannot argue; it only acts. It accepts the conclusions of the 
objective mind as final. 


The Solar Plexus has been likened to the sum of the body, because it is a central 
point of distribution for the energy which the body is constantly generating. This 
energy is very real energy, and this sun is a very real sun, and the energy is being 
distributed by very real nerves to all parts of the body, and is thrown off in an 
atmosphere which envelopes the body. 


If this radiation is sufficiently strong the person is called magnetic; he is said to be 
filled with personal magnetism. Such a person may wield an immense power for 
good. His presence alone will often bring comfort to the troubled minds with 
which he comes in contact. 


When the Solar Plexus is in active operation and is radiating life, energy and 
vitality to every part of the body, and to every one whom he meets, the sensations 


are pleasant, the body is filled with health and all with whom he comes in contact 
experience a pleasant sensation. 


26 


8. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


If there is any interruption of this radiation the sensations are unpleasant, the flow 
of life and energy to some part of the body is stopped, and this is the cause of 
every iil to the human race, physical, mental or environmental. 

Physical because the sun of the body is no longer generating sufficient energy to 
vitalize some part of the body; mental because the conscious mind is dependent 
upon the subconscious mind for the vitality necessary to support its thought, and 
environmental, because the connection between the subconscious mind and the 
Universal mind, is being interrupted. 


The Solar Plexus is the point at which the part meets with the whole, where the 
finite becomes Infinite, where the Uncreate becomes create, the Universal 
becomes individualized, the Invisible becomes visible. It is the point at which life 
appears and there is no limit to the amount of life an individual may generate 
from this Solar centre. 


This centre of energy is Omnipotent because it is the point of contact with all life 
and all intelligence. It can therefore accomplish whatever it is directed to 
accomplish, and herein lies the power of the conscious mind; the subconscious 
can and will carry out such plans and ideas as may be suggested to it by the 
conscious mind. 


Conscious thought, then, is master of this sun centre from which the life and 
energy of the entire body flows and the quality of the thought which we entertain 
determines the quality of the thought which this sun will radiate, and the character 
of the thought which our conscious mind entertains will determine the character 
ot the thought which this sun will radiate, and the nature of the thought which our 
conscious mind entertains will determine the nature of thought which this sun will 
radiate, and consequently will determine the nature of the experience which will 
result. 


It is evident, therefore, that all we have to do is let our light shine; the more 
energy we can radiate, the more rapidly shall we be enabled to transmute 
undesirable conditions into sources of pleasure and profit. The important question, 
then, is how to let this light shine; how to generate this energy. 


Non-resistant thought expands the Solar Plexus; resistant thought contracts it. 
Pleasant thought expands it; unpleasant thought contracts it. Thoughts of courage, 
power, confidence and hope all produce a corresponding state, but the one arch 
enemy of the Solar Plexus which must be absolutely destroyed before there is any 
possibility of letting any light shine is fear. This enemy must be completely 
destroyed; he must be eliminated; he must be expelled forever; he is the cloud 
which hides the sun; which causes a perpetual gloom. 


It is this personal devil which makes men fear the past, the present and the future; 
fear themselves, their friends and their enemies; fear everything and everybody. 


2d 


16. 


ie 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


When fear is effectually and completely destroyed, your light will shine, the 
clouds will disperse and you will have found the source of power, energy and life. 


When you find that you are really one with the Infinite power, and when you can 
consciously realize this power by a practical demonstration of your ability to 
overcome any adverse condition by the power of your thought, you will have 
nothing to fear; fear will have been destroyed and you will have come into 
possession of your birthright. 

It is our attitude of mind toward life which determines the experiences with which 
we are to meet; if we expect nothing, we shall have nothing; if we demand much, 
we shall receive the greater portion. The world is harsh only as we fail to assert 
ourselves. The criticism of the world is bitter only to those who cannot compel 
room for their ideas. It is fear of this criticism that causes many ideas to fail to see 
the light of day. 


But the man who knows that he has a Solar Plexus will not fear criticism or 
anything else; he will be too busy radiating courage, confidence, and power; he 
will anticipate success by his mental attitude; he will pound barriers to pieces, and 
leap over the chasm of doubt and hesitation which fear places in his path. 


A knowledge of our ability to consciously radiate health, strength and harmony 
will bring us into a realization that there is nothing to fear because we are in touch 
with Infinite Strength. 


This knowledge can be gained only by making practical application of this 
information. We learn by doing; through practice the athlete comes powerful. 


As the following statement is of considerable importance, I will put it in several 
ways, so that you cannot fail to get the full significance of it. If you are religiously 
inclined, I would say, you can let your light shine. If your mind has a bias toward 
physical science, I would say you can wake the Solar Plexus; or, if you prefer the 
strictly scientific interpretation, I will say that you can impress your subconscious 
mind. 


I have already told you what the result of this impression will be. It is the method 
in which you are now interested. You have already learned that the subconscious 
is intelligent and that it is creative, and responsive to the will of the conscious 
mind. What, then, is the most natural way of making the desired impression? 
Mentally concentrate on the object of your desire; when you are concentrating 
you are impressing the subconscious. 


This is not the only way, but it is a simple and effective way, and the most direct 
way, and consequently the way in which the best results are secured. It is the 


method which is producing such extraordinary results that many think that 
miracles are being accomplished. 


28 


24. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


a2. 


33. 


It is the method by which every great inventor, every great financier, every great 
statesman has been enabled to convert the subtle and invisible force of desire, 
faith and confidence into actual, tangible, concrete facts in the objective world. 


The subconscious mind is a part of the Universal mind. The Universal is the 
creative principle of the Universe, a part must be the same in kind and quality as 
the whole. This means that this creative power is absolutely unlimited; it is not 
bound by precedent of any kind, and consequently has no prior existing pattern by 
which to apply its constructive principle. 

We have found that the subconscious mind is responsive to our conscious will, 
which means that the unlimited creative power of the Universal Mind is within 
control of the conscious mind of the individual. 


When making a practical application of this principle, in accordance with the 
exercises given in the subsequent lessons, it is well to remember that it is not 
necessary to outline the method by which the subconscious will produce the 
results you desire. The finite can not inform the Infinite. You are simply to say 
what you desire, not how you are to obtain it. 


You are the channel by which the undifferentiated is being differentiated, and this 
differentiation 1s being accomplished by appropriation. It only requires 
recognition to set causes in motion which will bring about results in accordance 
with your desire, and this is accomplished because the Universal can act only 
through the individual, and the individual can act only through the Universal; they 
are one. 


For your exercise this week, I will ask you to go one step further. I want you to 
not only be perfectly still, and inhibit all thought as far as possible, but relax, let 
go, let the muscles take their normal condition; this will remove all pressure from 
the nerves, and eliminate that tension which so frequently produces physical 
exhaustion. 


Physical relaxation is a voluntary exercise of the will and the exercise will be 
found to be of great value, as it enables the blood to circulate freely to and from 
the brain and body. 


Tensions leads to mental unrest and abnormal mental activity of the mind; it 
produces worry, care, fear and anxiety. Relaxation is therefore an absolute 
necessity in order to allow the mental faculties to exercise the greatest freedom. 


Make this exercise as thorough and complete as possible, mentally determine that 
you will relax every muscle and nerve, until you feel quiet and restful and at 


peace with yourself and the world. 


The Solar Plexus will then be ready to function and you will be surprised at the 
result. 


W 


PART THREE Study Questions with Answers 


21. What system of nerves is the organ of the Conscious Mind? The Cerebro-spinal. 
22. What system of nerves is the organ of the subconscious mind? The sympathetic. 
23. What is the central point of distribution for energy which the body is constantly 
generating? The solar plexus. 

24. How may this distribution be interrupted? By resistant, critical, discordant 
thoughts, but especially fear. 

25. What is the result of such interruption? Every ill with which the human race is 
afflicted. 

26. How may this energy be controlled and directed? By conscious thought. 

27. How may fear be completely eliminated? By an understanding and recognition of 
the true source of all power. 

28. What determines the experiences with which we meet in life? Our predominant 
mental attitude. 

29. How may we awake the solar plexus? Mentally concentrate upon the condition 
which we desire to see manifested in our lives. 

30. What is the creative principle of the Universe? The Universal Mind. 


30 


INTRODUCTION - PART FOUR 


Enclosed herewith [ hand you Part Four. This part will show you why what you think, 
or do, or feel, is an indication of what you are. 

Thought is energy and energy is power, and it is because all the religions, sciences 
and philosophies with which the world has heretofore been familiar have been based 
upon the manifestation of this energy instead of the energy itself, that the world has been 
limited to effects, while causes have been ignored or misunderstood. 

For this reason we have God and the Devil in religion, positive and negative in 
science, and good and bad in philosophy. 

The master key reverses the process; it is interested only in cause, and the letters 
received from students tell a marvelous story; they indicate conclusively that students are 
finding the cause whereby they may secure for themselves health, harmony, abundance, 
and whatever else may be necessary for their welfare and happiness. 

Life is expressive and it is our business to express ourselves harmoniously and 
constructively. Sorrow, misery, unhappiness, disease and poverty are not necessities and 
we are constantly eliminating them. 

But this process of eliminating consists in rising above and beyond limitation of any 
kind. He who has strengthened and purified his thought need not concern himself about 
microbes, and he who has come into an understanding of the law of abundance will go at 
once to the source of supply. It is thus that fate, fortune, and destiny will be controlled as 
readily as a captain controls his ship, or an engineer, his train. 


31 


PART FOUR 


. The "I" of you is not the physical body; that is simply an instrument which the "I" 
uses to carry out its purposes; the "I" cannot be the Mind, for the mind is simply 
another instrument which the "I" uses with which to think, reason, and plan. 


. The "I" must be something which controls and directs both the body and the 
mind; something which determines what they shall do and how they shall act. 
When you come into a realization of the true nature of this "I", you will enjoy a 
sense of power which you have never before known. 


. Your personality is made up of countless individual characteristics, peculiarities, 
habits, and traits of character; these are the result of your former method of 
thinking, but they have nothing to do with the real "I." 


. When you say "I think" the "I" tells the mind what it shall think; when you say "I 
go" the "I" tells the physical body where it shall go; the real nature of this "I" is 
spiritual, and is the source of the real power which comes to men and women 
when they come into a realization of their true nature. 


. The greatest and most marvelous power which this "I" has been given is the 
power to think, but few people know how to think constructively, or correctly, 
consequently they achieve only indifferent results. Most people allow their 
thoughts to dwell on selfish purposes, the inevitable result of an infantile mind. 
When a mind becomes mature, it understands that the germ of defeat is in every 
selfish thought. 


. The trained mind knows that every transaction must benefit every person who is 
in any way connected with the transaction, and any attempt to profit by the 
weakness, ignorance or necessity of another will inevitably operate to his 
disadvantage. 


. This is because the individual is a part of the Universal. A part cannot antagonize 
any other part, but, on the contrary, the welfare of each part depends upon a 
recognition of the interest of the whole. 


. Those who recognize this principle have a great advantage in the affairs of life. 
They do not wear themselves out. They can eliminate vagrant thoughts with 
facility. They can readily concentrate to the highest possible degree on any 


subject. They do not waste time or money upon objects which can be of no 
possible benefit to them. 


. If you cannot do these things it is because you have thus far not made the 


necessary effort. Now is the time to make the effort. The result will be exactly in 
proportion to the effort expended. One of the strongest affirmations which you 


a2 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


Mids 


18. 


can use for the purpose of strengthening the will and realizing your power to 
accomplish, is, "I can be what I will to be." 


Every time you repeat it realize who and what this "I" is; try to come into a 
thorough understanding of the true nature of the "I"; if you do, you will become 
invincible; that is, provided that your objects and purposes are constructive and 
are therefore in harmony with the creative principle of the Universe. 


If you make use of this affirmation, use it continuously, night and morning, and as 
often during the day as you think of it, and continue to do so until it becomes a 
part of you; form the habit. 


Unless you do this, you had better not start at all, because modern psychology 
tells us that when we start something and do not complete it, or make a resolution 
and do not keep it, we are forming the habit of failure; absolute, ignominious 
failure. If you do not intend to do a thing, do not start; if you do start, see it 
through even if the heavens fall; if you make up your mind to do something, do it; 
let nothing, no one, interfere; the "I" in you has determined, the thing is settled; 
the die is cast, there is no longer any argument. 


If you carry out this idea, beginning with small things which you know you can 
control and gradually increase the effort, but never under any circumstances 
allowing your "I" to be overruled, you will find that you can eventually control 
yourself, and many men and women have found to their sorrow that it is easier to 
control a kingdom that to control themselves. 


But when you have learned to control yourself you will have found the "World 
Within" which controls the world without; you will have become irresistible; men 
and things will respond to your every wish without any apparent effort on your 
part. 


This is not so strange or impossible as it may appear when you remember that the 
"World Within" is controlled by the "I" and that this "I" is a part or one with the 
Infinite "I" which is the Universal Energy or Spirit, usually called God. 


This is not a mere statement or theory made for the purpose of confirming or 
establishing an idea, but it is a fact which has been accepted by the best religious 
thought as well as the best scientific thought. 


Herbert Spender said: "Amid all the mysteries by which we are surrounded, 
nothing is more certain than that we are ever in the presence of an Infinite and 
Eternal Energy from which all things proceed." 


Lyman Abbott, in an address delivered before the Alumni of Bangor Theological 
Seminary, said: "We are coming to think of God as dwelling in man rather than as 
operating on men from without." 


33 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


Hie 


Science goes a little way in its search and stops. Science finds the everpresent 
Eternal Energy, but Religion finds the Power behind this energy and locates it 
within man. But this is by no means a new discovery, the Bible says exactly the 
same thing, and the language is just as plain and convincing: "Know ye not that 
ye are the temple of the living God?" Here, then, is the secret of the wonderful 


creative power of the "World Within." 


Here is the secret of power, of mastery. To overcome does not mean to go without 
things. Self-denial is not success. We cannot give unless we get; we cannot be 
helpful unless we are strong. The Infinite is not a bankrupt and we who are the 
representatives of Infinite power should not be bankrupts either, and if we wish to 
be of service to others we must have power and more power, but to get it we must 
give it; we must be of service. 


The more we give the more we shall get; we must become a channel whereby the 
Universal can express activity. The Universal is constantly seeking to express 
itself, to be of service, and it seeks the channel whereby it can find the greatest 
activity, where it can do the most good, where it can be of greatest service to 
mankind. 


The Universal cannot express through you as long as you are busy with your 
plans, your own purposes; quiet the senses, seek inspiration, focus the mental 
activity on the within, dwell in the consciousness of your unity with 
Omnipotence. "Still water runs deep;" contemplate the multitudinous 
opportunities to which you have spiritual access by the Omnipresence of power. 


Visualize the events, circumstances and conditions which these spiritual 
connections may assist in manifesting. Realize the fact that the essence and soul 
of all things is spiritual and that the spiritual is the real, because it is the life of all 
there is; when the spirit is gone, the life is gone; it is dead; it has ceased to exist. 


These mental activities pertain to the world within, to the world of cause: and 
conditions and circumstances which result are the effect. It is thus that you 
become a creator. This is important work, and the higher, loftier, grander and 


more noble ideals which you can conceive, the more important the work will 
become. 


Over-work or over-play or over-bodily activity of any kind produces conditions of 
mental apathy and stagnation which makes it impossible to do the more important 
work which results in a realization of conscious power. We should, therefore 

seek the Silence frequently. Power comes through repose; it is in the Silence that 


we can be still, and when we are still, we can think, and thought is the secret of all 
attainment. 


34 


26. Thought is a mode of motion and is carried by the law of vibration the same as 
light or electricity. It is given vitality by the emotions through the law of love; it 
takes form and expression by the law of growth; it is a product of the spiritual “T”, 
hence its Divine, spiritual, and creative nature. 


27. From this it is evident that in order to express power, abundance or any other 
constructive purpose, the emotions must be called upon to give feeling to the 
thought so that it will take form. How may this purpose be accomplished? This is 
the vital point; how may we develop the faith, the courage, the feeling, which will 
result in accomplishment? 

28. The reply is, by exercise; mental sthencttis is secured in exactly the same way that 
physical strength is secured, by exercise. We think something, perhaps with 
difficulty the first time; we think the same thing again, and it becomes easier this 
time; we think it again and again; it then becomes a mental habit. We continue to 
think the same thing; finally it becomes automatic; we can no longer help thinking 
this thing; we are now positive of what we think; there is no longer any doubt 
about it. We are sure; we know. 


29. Last week I asked you to relax, to let go physically. This week, I am going to ask 
you to let go mentally. If you practiced the exercise given you last week fifteen or 
twenty minutes a day in accordance with the instructions, you can no doubt relax 
physically; and anyone who cannot consciously do this quickly and completely is 
not a master of himself. He has not obtained freedom; he is still a slave to 
conditions. But I shall assume that you have mastered the exercise and are ready 
to take the next step, which is mental freedom. 


30. This week, after taking your usual position, remove all tension by completely 
relaxing, then mentally let go of all adverse conditions, such as hatred, anger, 
worry, jealousy, envy, sorrow, trouble or disappointment of any kind. 


31. You may say that you cannot "let go" of these things, but you can; you can do so 
by mentally determining to do so, by voluntary intention and persistence. 


32. The reason that some cannot do this is because they allow themselves to be 
controlled by the emotions instead of by their intellect. But those who will be 
guided by the intellect will gain the victory. You will not succeed the first time 
you try, but practice makes perfect, in this as in everything else, and you must 
succeed in dismissing, eliminating and completely destroying these negative and 
destructive thoughts; because they are the seed which is constantly germinating 
into discordant conditions of every conceivable kind and description. 


"There is nothing truer than that the quality of thought which we entertain correlates 
certain externals in the outside world. This is the Law from which there is no escape. And 
it is this Law, this correlative of the thought with its object, that from time immemorial 
has led the people to believe in special providence." - Wilmans 


PART FOUR Study Questions with Answers 


31. What is thought? Thought is spiritual energy. 

32. How is it carried? By the law of vibration. 

33. How is it given vitality? By the law of love. 

34. How does it take form? By the law of growth. 

35. What is the secret of its creative power? It is a spiritual activity. 
36. How may we develop the faith, courage, and enthusiasm which will result in 
accomplishment? By a recognition of our spiritual nature. 

37. What is the secret of Power? Service. 

38. Why is this so? Because we get what we give. 

39. What is the Silence? A physical stillness. 

40. Of what value is it? It is the first step to self-control, self-mastery. 


36 


INTRODUCTION - PART FIVE 


Enclosed herewith you will find Part Five. After studying this part carefully, you will 
see that every conceivable force or object or fact is the result of mind in action. 

Mind in action is thought, and thought is creative. Men are thinking now as they 
never thought before. Therefore, this is a creative age, and the world is awarding its 
richest prizes to the thinkers. 

Matter is powerless, passive, inert. Mind is force, energy, power. Mind shapes and 
controls matter. Every form which matter takes is but the expression of some pre-existing 
thought. : 

But thought works no magic transformations; it obeys natural laws; it sets in motion 
natural forces; it releases natural energies; it manifests in your conduct and actions, and 
these in turn react upon your friends and acquaintances, and eventually upon the whole of 
your environment. 

You can originate thought, and, since thoughts are creative, you can create for 
yourself the things you desire. 


ag 


10. 


PART FIVE 


At least ninety per cent of our mental life is subconscious, so that those who fail 
to make use of this mental power live within very narrow limits. 


The subconscious can and will solve any problem for us if we know how to direct 
it. The subconscious processes are always at work; the only question is, are we to 
be simply passive recipients of this activity, or are we to consciously direct the 
work? Shall we have a vision of the destination to be reached, the dangers to be 
avoided, or shall we simply drift? 


We have found that mind pervades every part of the physical body and fs always 
capable of being directed or impressed by authority coming from the objective or 
the more dominant portion of the mind. 


The mind, which pervades the body, is largely the result of heredity, which, in 
turn, is simply the result of all the environments of all past generations on the 
responsive and ever-moving life forces. An understanding of this fact will enable 
us to use our authority when we find some undesirable trait of character 
manifesting. 


We can consciously use all the desirable characteristics with which we have been 
provided and we can repress and refuse to allow the undesirable ones to manifest. 


Again, this mind which pervades our physical body is not only the result of 
hereditary 

tendencies, but is the result of home, business and social environment, where 
countless thousands of impressions, ideas, prejudices and similar thoughts have 
been received. Much of this has been received from others, the result of opinions, 
suggestions or statements; much of it is the result of our own thinking, but nearly 
all of it has been accepted with little or no examination or consideration. 


The idea seemed plausible, the conscious received it, passed it on to the 
subconscious, where it was taken up by the Sympathetic System and passed on to 
be built into our physical body. "The word has become flesh." 


This, then, is the way we are consistently creating and recreating ourselves; we 
are today the result of our past thinking, and we shall be what we are thinking 
today, the Law of Attraction is bringing to us, not the things we should like, or the 
things we wish for, or the things some one else has, but it brings us "our own," the 
things which we have created by our thought processes, whether consciously or 
unconsciously. Unfortunately, many of us are creating these things unconsciously. 


If either of us were building a home for ourselves, how careful we would be in 


regard to the plans; how we should study every detail; how we should watch the 
material and select only the best of everything; and yet how careless we are when 


38 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


it comes to building our Mental Home, which is infinitely more important than 
any physical home, as everything which can possibly enter into our lives depends 
upon the character of the material which enters into the construction of our 
Mental Home. 


What is the character of this material? We have seen that it is the result of the 
impressions which we have accumulated in the past and stored away in our 
subconscious Mentality. If these impressions have been of fear, of worry, of care, 
of anxiety; if they have been despondent, negative, doubtful, then the texture of 
the material which we are weaving today will be of the same negative material. 
Instead of being of any value, it will be mildewed and rotten and will bring us 
only more toil and care and anxiety. We shall be forever busy trying to patch it up 
and make it appear at least genteel. 


But if we have stored away nothing but courageous thought, if we have been 
optimistic, positive, and have immediately thrown any kind of negative thought 
on the scrap pile, have refused to have anything to do with it, have refused to 
associate with it or become identified with it in any way, what then is the result? 
Our mental material is now of the best kind; we can weave any kind of material 
we want; we can use any color we wish; we know that the texture 1s firm, that the 
material is solid, that it will not fade, and we have no fear, no anxiety concerning 
the future; there is nothing to cover, there are no patches to hide. 


These are psychological facts; there is no theory or guess work about these 
thinking processes; there is nothing secret about them; in fact, they are so plain 
that every one can understand them. The thing to do is to have a mental house- 
cleaning, and to have this house-cleaning every day, and keep the house clean. 
Mental, moral and physical cleanliness are absolutely indispensable if we are to 
make progress of any kind. 


When this mental house-cleaning process has been completed, the material which 
is left will be suitable for the making of the kind of ideals or mental images which 
we desire to realize. 


There is a fine estate awaiting a claimant. Its broad acres, with abundant crops, 
running water and fine timber, stretch away as far as the eye can see. There is a 
mansion, spacious and cheerful, with rare pictures, a well-stocked library, rich 
hangings, and every comfort and luxury. All the heir has to do is to assert his 
heirship, take possession, and use the property. He must use it; he must not let it 
decay; for use is the condition on which he holds it. To neglect it is to lose 


possession. 


In the domain of mind and spirit, in the domain of practical power, such an estate 
is yours. You are the heir! You can assert your heirship and possess, and use this 
rich inheritance. Power over circumstances is one of its fruits, health, harmony 
and prosperity are assets upon its balance sheet. It offers you poise and peace. It 


oo 


1 Wi 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


jp 


costs you only the labor of studying and harvesting its great resources. It demands 
no sacrifice, except the loss of your limitations, your servitudes, your weakness. It 
clothes you with self-honor, and puts a scepter in your hands. 


To gain this estate, three processes are necessary: You must earnestly desire it. 
You must assert your claim. You must take possession. 


You admit that those are not burdensome conditions. 


You are familiar with the subject of heredity. Darwin, Huxley, Haeckel, and other 
physical scientists have piled evidence mountain high that heredity is a law 
attending progressive creation. It is progressive heredity which gives man his 
erect attitude, his power of motion, the organs of digestions, blood circulation, 
nerve force, muscular force, bone structure and a host of other faculties on the 
physical side. There are even more impressive facts concerning heredity of mind 
force. All these constitute what may be called your human heredity. 


But there is a heredity which the physical scientists have not compassed. It lies 
beneath and antecedent to all their researches. At a point where they throw up 
their hands in despair, saying they cannot account for what they see, this divine 
heredity is found in full sway. 


It is the benignant force which decrees primal creation. It thrills down from the 
Divine, direct into every created being. It originates life, which the physical 
scientist has not done, nor ever can do. It stands out among all forces supreme, 
unapproachable. No human heredity can approach it. No human heredity 
measures up to it. 


This Infinite Life flows through you; is you. Its doorways are but the faculties 
which comprise your consciousness. To keep open these doors is the Secret of 
Power. Is it not worth while to make the effort? 


The great fact is, that the source of all life and all power is from within. Persons, 
circumstances and events may suggest need and opportunities, but the insight, 
strength and power to answer these needs will be found within. 


Avoid counterfeits. Build firm foundations for your consciousness upon forces 


which flow direct from the Infinite source, the Universal Mind of which you are 
the image and likeness. 


Those we have come into possession of this inheritance are never quite the same 
again. They have come into possession of a sense of power hitherto undreamed 
of. They can never again be timid, weak, vacillating, or fearful. They are 
indissolubly connected with Omnipotence. Something in them has been aroused; 


they have suddenly discovered that they possess a tremendous latent ability of 
which they were heretofore entirely unconscious. 


40 


26. 


2s 


28. 


29. 


30. 


This power is from within, but we cannot receive it unless we give it. Use is the 
condition upon which we hold this inheritance. We are each of us but the channel 
through which the Omnipotent power is being differentiated into form; unless we 
give, the channel is obstructed and we can receive no more. This is true on every 
plane of existence and in every field of endeavor and all walks of life. The more 
we give, the more we get. The athlete who wishes to get strong must make use of 
the strength he has, and the more he gives the more he will get. The financier who 
wishes to make money must make use of the money he has, for only by using it 
can he get more. 


The merchant who does not keep his goods going out will soon have none coming 
in; the corporation which fails to give efficient service will soon lack customers; 
the attorney who fails to get results will soon lack clients, and so it goes 
everywhere; power is contingent upon a proper use of the power already in our 
possession; what is true in every field of endeavor, every experience in life, is true 
of the power from which every other power known among men is begotten -- 
spiritual power. Take away the spirit and what is left? Nothing. 


If then the spirit is all there is, upon the recognition of this fact must depend the 
ability to demonstrate all power, whether physical, mental or spiritual. 


All possession is the result of the accumulative attitude of mind, or the money 
consciousness; this is the magic wand which will enable you to receive the idea, 
and it will formulate plans for you to execute, and you will find as much pleasure 
in the execution as in the satisfaction of attainment and achievement. 


Now, go to your room, take the same seat, the same position as heretofore, and 
mentally select a place which has pleasant associations. Make a complete mental 
picture of it, see the buildings, the grounds, the trees, friends, associations, 
everything complete. At first, you will find yourself thinking of everything under 
the sun, except the ideal upon which you desire to concentrate. But do not let that 
discourage you. Persistence will win, but persistence requires that you practice 
these exercises every day without fail. 


4] 


PART FIVE Study Questions with Answers 


41. What proportion of our mental life is subconscious? At least ninety per cent. 

42. Is this vast mental storehouse generally utilized? No. 

43. Why not? Few understand or appreciate the fact that it is an activity which they may 
consciously direct. 

44. Where has the conscious mind received its governing tendencies? From heredity - 
- which means that it is the result of all the environments of all past generations. 

45. What is the law of attraction bringing te us? Our "Own." 

46. What is our "Own"? What we inherently are, and is the result of our past thinking, 
both conscious and subconscious. 

47. Of what is the material with which we construct our mental home composed? 
The thoughts which we entertain. 

48. What is the Secret of Power? A recognition of the omnipresence of omnipotence. 
49. Where does it originate? All life and all power is from within. 

50. Upon what is the possession of power contingent? Upon a proper use of the power 
already in our possession. 


INTRODUCTION - PART SIX 


It is my privilege to enclose Part Six. This part will give you an excellent 
understanding of the most wonderful piece of mechanism which has ever been created. A 
mechanism whereby you may create for yourself Health, Strength, Success, Prosperity or 
any other condition which you desire. Necessities are demands, and demands create 
action, and actions bring about results. The process of evolution is constantly building 
our tomorrows out of our todays. Individual development, like Universal development, 
must be gradual with an ever increasing capacity and volume. 

The knowledge that if we infringe upon the rights of others, we become moral thorns 
and find ourselves entangled at every turn of the road, should be an indication that 
success is contingent upon the highest moral ideal, which is "The greatest good to the 
greatest number." 

Aspiration, desire and harmonious relations constantly and persistently maintained 
will accomplish results. The greatest hindrance is erroneous and fixed ideas. 

To be in tune with eternal truth we must possess poise and harmony within. In order 
to receive intelligence the receiver must be in tune with the transmitter. 

Thought is a product of Mind and Mind is creative, but this does not mean that the 
Universal will change its modus operandi to suit us or our ideas, but it does mean that we 
can come into harmonious relationship with the Universal, and when we have 
accomplished this we may ask anything to which we are entitled, and the way will be 
made plain. 


43 


PART SIX 


The Universal Mind is so wonderful that it is difficult to understand its utilitarian 
powers and possibilities and its unlimited producing effects. 


We have found that this Mind is not only all intelligence but all substance. How, 
then, is it to be differentiated in form? How are we to secure the effect which we 


desire? 


Ask any electrician what the effect of electricity will be and he will reply that 
"Electricity is a form of motion and its effect will depend upon the mechanism to 
which it is attached." Upon this mechanism will depend whether we shall have 
heat, light, power, music or any of the other marvelous demonstration of power to 
whichthis vital energy has been harnessed. 


What effect can be produced by thought? The reply is that thought is mind in 
motion (just as wind is air in motion), and its effect will depend entirely on the 
"mechanism to which it is attached." 


Here, then, is the secret of all mental power; it depends entirely on the mechanism 
which we attach. 


What is this mechanism? You know something of the mechanism which has been 
invented by Edison, Bell, Marconi and other electrical wizards, by which place 
and space and time have become only figures of speech, but did you ever stop to 
think that the mechanism which has been given you for transforming the 
Universal, Omnipresent Potential Power was invented by a greater inventor than 
Edison? 


We are accustomed to examining the mechanism of the implements which we use 
for tilling the soil, and we try to get an understanding of the mechanism of the 
automobile which we drive, but most of us are content to remain in absolute 
ignorance of the greatest piece of mechanism which as ever come into existence, 
the brain of man. 


Let us examine the wonders of this mechanism; perhaps we shall thereby get a 
better understanding of the various effects of which it is the cause. 


In the first place, there is the great mental world in which we live and move and 
have our being; this world is omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent; it will 
respond to our desire in direct ratio to our purpose and faith: the purpose must be 
in accordance with the law of our being, that is, it must be creative or 
constructive; our faith must be strong enough to generate a current of sufficient 


strength to bring our purpose into manifestation. "As thy faith is, so be it unto 
thee," bears the stamp of scientific test. 


44 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13; 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


The effects which are produced in the world without are the result of the action 
and reaction of the individual upon the universal; that is the process which we call 
thinking; the brain is the organ through which this process is accomplished; think 
of the wonder of it all! Do you love music, flowers, literature, or are you inspired 
by the thought of ancient or modern genius? Remember, every beauty to which 
you respond must have its corresponding outline in your brain before you can 
appreciate it. 


There is not a single virtue or principle in the storehouse of nature which the brain 
cannot express. The brain is an embryonic world, ready to develop at any time as 
necessity may arise. If you can comprehend that this is a scientific truth and one 
of the wonderful laws of nature, it will be easier for you to get an understanding 
of the mechanism by which these extraordinary results are being accomplished. 


The nervous system has been compared to an electric circuit with its battery of 
cells in which force is originated, and its white matter to insulated wires by which 
the current is conveyed; it is through these channels that every impulse or desire is 
carried through the mechanism. 


The spinal cord is the great motor and sensory pathway by which messages are 
conveyed to and from the brain; then, there is the blood supply plunging through 
the veins and arteries, renewing our energy and strength, the perfectly arranged 
structure upon which the entire physical body rests, and, finally, the delicate and 
beautiful skin, clothing the entire mechanism is a mantle of beauty. 


This then is the "Temple of the living God" and the individual "I" is given control 
and upon his understanding of the mechanism which is within his control will the 
result depend. 


Every thought sets the brain cells in action; at first the substance upon which the 
thought is directed fails to respond, but if the thought is sufficiently refined and 
concentrated, the substance finally yields and expresses perfectly. 


This influence of the mind can be exerted upon any part of the body, causing the 
elimination of any undesirable effect. 


A perfect conception and understanding of the laws governing in the mental world 
cannot fail to be of inestimable value in the transaction of business, as it develops 
the power of discernment and gives a clearer understanding and appreciation of 
facts. 


The man who looks within instead of without cannot fail to make use of the 
mighty forces which will eventually determine his course in life and so bring him 
into vibration with all that is best, strongest and most desirable. 


45 


i), 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23; 


24, 


25. 


26. 


Attention or concentration is probably; the most important essential in the 
development of mind culture. The possibilities of attention when properly 
directed are so startling that they would hardly appear credible to the uninitiated. 
The cultivation of attention is the distinguishing characteristic of every successful 
man or woman, and is the very highest personal accomplishment which can be 


acquired. 


The power of attention can be more readily understood by comparing it with a 
magnifying glass in which the rays of sunlight are focused; they possess no 
particular strength as long as the glass is moved about and the rays directed from 
one place to another; but let the glass be held perfectly still and let the rays be 
focused on one spot for any length of time, the effect will become immediately 
apparent. 


So with the power of thought; let power be dissipated by scattering the thought 
from one object to another, and no result is apparent; but focus this power through 
attention or concentration on any single purpose for any length of time and 
nothing becomes impossible. 


A very simple remedy for a very complex situation, some will say. All right, try 
it, you who have had no experience in concentrating the thought on a definite 
purpose or object. Choose any single object and concentrate your attention on it 
for a definite purpose for even ten minutes; you cannot do it; the mind will 
wander a dozen times and it will be necessary to bring it back to the original 
purpose, and each time the effect will have been lost and at the end of the ten 
minutes nothing will have been gained, because you have not been able to hold 
your thought steadily to the purpose. 


It is, however, through attention that you will finally be able to overcome 
obstacles of any kind that appear in your path onward and upward, and the only 
way to acquire this wonderful power is by practice -- practice makes perfect, in 
this as in anything else. 


In order to cultivate the power of attention, bring a photograph with you to the 
same seat in the same room in the same position as heretofore. Examine it closely 
at least ten minutes, note the expression of the eyes, the form of the features, the 
clothing, the way the hair is arranged; in fact, note every detail shown on the 
photograph carefully. Now cover it and close your eyes and try to see it mentally; 
if you can see every detail perfectly and can form a good mental image of the 
photograph, you are to be congratulated; if not, repeat the process until you can. 


This step is simply for the purpose of preparing the soil: next week we shall be 
ready to sow the seed. 


It is by such exercises as these that you will finally be able to control your mental 
moods, your attitude, your consciousness. 


46 


27, 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


32. 


J: 


34. 


Great financiers are learning to withdraw from the multitude more and more, that 


they may have more time for planning, thinking and generating the right mental 
moods. 


Successful businessmen are constantly demonstrating the fact that it pays to keep 
in touch with the thought of other successful business men. 


A single idea may be worth millions of dollars, and these ideas can only come to 


those who are receptive, who are pipes to receive them, who are in successful 
frame of mind. 


Men are learning to place themselves in harmony with the Universal Mind; they 
are learning the unity of all things; they are learning the basic methods and 
principles of thinking, and this is changing conditions and multiplying results. 


They are finding that circumstances and environment follow the trend of mental 
and spiritual progress; they find that growth follows knowledge; action follows 
inspiration; opportunity follows perception; always the spiritual first, then the 
transformation into the infinite and illimitable possibilities of achievement. 


As the individual is but the channel for the differentiation of the Universal, these 
possibilities are necessarily inexhaustible. 


Thought is the process by which we may absorb the Spirit of Power, and hold the 
result in our inner consciousness until it becomes a part of our ordinary 
consciousness. The method of accomplishing this result by the persistent practice 
of a few fundamental principles, as explained in this System, is the master-key 
which unlocks the storehouse of Universal Truth. 


The two great sources of human suffering at present are bodily disease and mental 
anxiety. These may be readily traced to the infringement of some Natural Law. 
This is, no doubt, owing to the fact that so far knowledge has largely remained 
partial, but the clouds of darkness which have accumulated through long ages are 
beginning to roll away and with them many of the miseries that attend imperfect 
information. 


"That a man can change himself, improve himself, re-create himself, control his 
environment, and master his own destiny is the conclusion of every mind who is wide- 
awake to the power of right thought in constructive action." - Larson 


47 


PART SIX Study Questions with Answers 


51. What are some of the effects which can be produced by electricity? Heat, light, 
power, music. 

52. Upon what do these various effects depend? Upon the mechanism to which 
electricity is attached. 

53. What is the result of the action and interaction of the individual mind upon the 
Universal? The conditions and experiences with which we meet. 

54. How may these conditions be changed? By changing the mechanism by which the 
Universal is differentiated in form. 

55. What is this mechanism? The brain. 

56. How may it be changed? By the process we call thinking. Thoughts produce brain 
cells, and these cells respond to the corresponding thought in the Universal. 

57. Of what value is the power of concentration? It is the very highest personal 
accomplishment which can be acquired, and the distinguishing characteristic of every 
successful man or woman. 

58. How may it be acquired? By faithfully practicing the exercises in this System. 

59. Why is this so important? Because it will enable us to control our thoughts, and 
since thoughts are causes conditions must be effects; if we can control the cause we can 
also control the effect. 

60. What is changing conditions and multiplying results in the objective world? Men 
are learning the basic methods of constructive thinking. 


48 


INTRODUCTION - PART SEVEN 


Through all the ages man has believed in an invisible power, through which and by 
which all things have been created and are continually being re-created. 

We may personalize this power and call it God, or we may think of it as the essence 
or spirit, which permeates all things, but in either case the effect is the same. 

So far as the individual is concerned, the objective, the physical, the visible, is the 
personal, that which can be cognized by the senses. It consists of body, brain and nerves. 
The subjective is the spiritual, the invisible, the impersonal. 

The personal is conscious because it is a personal entity. The impersonal, being the 
same in kind and quality as all other Being, is not conscious of itself and has therefore 
been termed the subconscious. The personal, or conscious, has the power of will and 
choice, and can therefore exercise discrimination in the selection of methods whereby to 
bring about the solution of difficulties. The impersonal, or spiritual, being a part or one 
with the source, and origin of all power, can necessarily exercise no such choice, but, on 
the contrary, it has Infinite resources at its command. It can and does bring about results 
by methods concerning which the human or individual mind can have no possible 
conception. 

You will therefore see that it is your privilege to depend upon the human will with all 
its limitations and misconceptions, or you may utilize the potentialities of Infinity by 
making use of the subconscious mind. Here, then, is the scientific explanation of the 
wonderful power which has been put within your control, if you but understand, 
appreciate and recognize it. 

One method of consciously utilizing this omnipotent power is outlined in Part Seven. 


49 


PART SEVEN 


. Visualization is the process of making mental images, and the image is the mold 
or model which will serve as a pattern from which your future will emerge. 


. Make the pattern clear and make it beautiful; do not be afraid; make it grand; 
remember that no limitation can be placed upon you by any one but yourself; you 
are not limited as to cost or material; draw on the Infinite for your supply, 
construct it in your imagination; it will have to be there before it will ever appear 
anywhere else. 


. Make the image clear and clean-cut, hold it firmly in the mind and you will 
gradually and constantly bring the thing nearer to you. You can be what "you will 
to be." 


. This is another psychological fact which is well known, but unfortunately, reading 
about it will not bring about any result which you may have in mind; it will not 
even help you to form the mental image, much less bring it into manifestation. 
Work is necessary - labor, hard mental labor, the kind of effort which so few are 
willing to put forth. 


. The first step is idealization. It is likewise the most important step, because it is 
the plan on which you are going to build. It must be solid; it must be permanent. 
The architect, when he plans a 30-story building, has every line and detail 
pictured in advance. The engineer, when he spans a chasm, first ascertains the 
strength requirements of a million separate parts. 


. They see the end before a single step is taken; so you are to picture in your mind 
what you want; you are sowing the seed, but before sowing any seed you want to 
know what the harvest is to be. This is Idealization. If you are not sure, return to 
the chair daily until the picture becomes plain; it will gradually unfold; first the 
general plan will be dim, but it will take shape, the outline will take form, then the 
details, and you will gradually develop the power by which you will be enabled to 
formulate plans which will eventually materialize in the objective world. You will 
come to know what the future holds for you. 


. Then comes the process of visualization. You must see the picture more and more 
complete, see the detail, and, as the details begin to unfold the ways and means 
for bringing it into manifestation will develop. One thing will lead to another. 
Thought will lead to action, action will develop methods, methods will develop 
friends, and friends will bring about circumstances, and, finally, the third step, or 
Materialization, will have been accomplished. 


. We all recognize the Universe must have been thought into shape before it ever 


could have become a material fact. And if we are willing to follow along the lines 
of the Great Architect of the Universe, we shall find our thoughts taking form, just — 


50 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13; 


14. 


is: 


as the universe took concrete form. It is the same mind operating through the 


individual. There is no difference in kind or quality, the only difference is one of 
degree. 


The architect visualizes his building, he sees it as he wishes it to be. His thought 
becomes a plastic mold from which the building will eventually emerge, a high 
one or a low one, a beautiful one or a plain one, his vision takes form on paper 
and eventually the necessary material is utilized and the building stands complete. 


The inventor visualizes his idea in exactly the same manner, for instance, Nikola 
Tesla, he with the giant intellect, one of the greatest inventors of all ages, the man 
who has brought forth the most amazing realities, always visualizes his inventions 
before attempting to work them out. He did not rush to embody them in form and 
then spend his time in correcting defects. Having first built up the idea in his 
imagination, he held it there as a mental picture, to be reconstructed and improved 
by his thought. "In this way," he writes in the Electrical Experimenter. "I am 
enabled to rapidly develop and perfect a conception without touching anything. 
When I have gone so far as to embody in the invention every possible 
improvement I can think of, and see no fault anywhere, I put into concrete, the 
product of my brain. Invariably my devise works as I conceived it should; in 
twenty years there has not been a single exception." 


If you can conscientiously follow these directions, you will develop Faith, the 
kind of Faith that is the "Substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not 
seen"; you will develop confidence, the kind of confidence that leads to endurance 
and courage; you will develop the power of concentration which will enable you 
to exclude all thoughts except the ones which are associated with your purpose. 


The law is that thought will manifest in form, and only one who knows how to be 
the divine thinker of his own thoughts can ever take a Master's place and speak 
with authority. 


Clearness and accuracy are obtained only by repeatedly having the image in mind. 
Each repeated action renders the image more clear and accurate than the 
preceding, and in proportion to the clearness and accuracy of the image will the 
outward manifestation be. You must build it firmly and securely in your mental 
world, the world within, before it can take form in the world without, and you can 
build nothing of value, even in the mental world unless you have the proper 
material. When you have the material you can build anything you wish, but make 
sure of your material. You cannot make broadcloth from shoddy. 


This material will be brought out by millions of silent mental workers and 
fashioned into the form of the image which you have in mind. 


Think of it! You have over five million of these mental workers, ready and in 
active use; brain cells they are called. Besides this, there is another reserve force 


51 


16. 


Lis 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


of at least an equal number, ready to be called into action at the slightest need. 
Your power to think, then, is almost unlimited, and this means that your power to 
create the kind of material which is necessary to build for yourself any kind of 
environment which you desire is practically unlimited. 

In addition to these millions of mental workers, you have billions of mental 
workers in the body, every one of which is endowed with sufficient intelligence to 
understand and act upon any message or suggestion given. These cells are all busy 
creating and recreating the body, but, in addition to this, they are endowed with 
psychic activity whereby they can attract to themselves the substance necessary 
for perfect development. 


They do this by the same law and in the same manner that every form of life 
attracts to itself the necessary material for growth. The oak, the rose, the lily, all 
require certain material for their most perfect expression and they secure it by 
silent demand, the Law of Attraction, the most certain way for you to secure what 
you require for your most complete development. 


Make the Mental Image; make it clear, distinct, perfect; hold it firmly; the ways 
and means will develop; supply will follow the demand; you will be led to do the 
right thing at the right time and in the right way. Earnest Desire will bring about 
Confident Expectation, and this in turn must be reinforced by Firm Demand. 
These three cannot fail to bring about Attainment, because the Earnest Desire is 
the feeling, the Confident Expectation is the thought, and the Firm Demand is the 
will, and, as we have seen, feeling gives vitality to thought and the will holds it 
steadily until the law of Growth brings it into manifestation. 


Is it not wonderful that man has such tremendous power within himself, such 
transcendental faculties concerning which he had no conception? Is it not strange 
that we have always been taught to look for strength and power "without?" We 
have been taught to look everywhere but "within" and whenever this power 
manifested in our lives we were told that it was something supernatural. 


There are many who have come to an understanding of this wonderful power, and 
who make serious and conscientious efforts to realize health, power and other 
conditions, and seem to fail. They do not seem able to bring the Law into 
operation. The difficulty in nearly every case is that they are dealing with 
externals. They want money, power, health and abundance, but they fail to realize 
that these are effects and can come only when the cause is found. . 


Those who will give no attention to the world without will seek only to ascertain 
the truth, will look only for wisdom, will find that this wisdom will unfold and 
disclose the source of all power, that it will manifest in thought and purpose 
which will create the external conditions desired. This truth will find expression 
in noble purpose and courageous action. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


Create ideals only, give no thought to external conditions, make the world within 
beautiful and opulent and the world without will express and manifest the 
condition which you have within. You will come into a realization of your power 
to create ideals and these ideals will be projected into the world of effect. 


For instance, a man is in debt. He will be continually thinking about the debt, 
concentrating on it, and as thoughts are causes the result is that he not only fastens 
the debt closer to him, but actually creates more debt. He is putting the great law 
of Attraction into operation with the usual and inevitable result -- Loss leads to 
greater "Loss." 


What, then, is the correct principle? Concentrate on the things you want, not on 
the things you do not want. Think of abundance; idealize the methods and plans 
for putting the Law of Abundance into operation. Visualize the condition which 
the Law of Abundance creates; this will result in manifestation. 


If the law operates perfectly to bring about poverty, lack and every form of 
limitation for those who are continually entertaining thoughts of lack and fear, it 
will operate with the same certainty to bring about conditions of abundance and 
opulence for those who entertain thoughts of courage and power. 


This is a difficult problem for many; we are too anxious; we manifest anxiety, 
fear, distress; we want to do something; we want to help; we are like a child who 
has just planted a seed and every fifteen minutes goes and stirs up the earth to see 
if it is growing. Of course, under such circumstances, the seed will never 
germinate, and yet this is exactly what many of us do in the mental world. 


We must plant the seed and leave it undisturbed. This does not mean that we are 
to sit down and do nothing, by no means; we will do more and better work then 
we have ever done before, new channels will constantly be provided, new doors 
will open; all that is necessary is to have an open mind, be ready to act when the 
time comes. 


Thought force is the most powerful means of obtaining knowledge, and if 
concentrated on any subject will solve the problem. Nothing is beyond the power 
of human comprehension, but in order to harness thought force and make it do 
your bidding, work is required. 


Remember that thought is the fire that creates the steam that turns the wheel of 
fortune, upon which your experiences depend. 


Ask yourself a few questions and then reverently await the response; do you not 
now and then feel the self with you? Do you assert this self or do you follow the 
majority? Remember that majorities are always led, they never lead. It was the 
majority that fought, tooth and nail, against the steam engine, the power loom and 
every other advance or improvement ever suggested. 


53 


31. For your exercise this week, visualize your friend, see him exactly as you last saw 
him, see the room, the furniture, recall the conversation, now see his face, see it 
distinctly, now talk to him about some subject of mutual interest; see his 
expression change, watch him smile. Can you do this? All right, you can; then 
arouse his interest, tell him a story of adventure, see his eyes light up with the 
spirit of fun or excitement. Can you do all of this? If so, your imagination is good, 
you are making excellent progress. 


54 


PART SEVEN Study Questions with Answers 


61. What is visualization? The process of making mental pictures. 

62. What is the result of this method of thought? By holding the image or picture in 
mind, we can gradually but surely bring the thing nearer to us. We can be what we will to 
be. 

63. What is Idealization? It is a process of visualizing or idealizing the plans which will 
eventually materialize in our objective world. 

64. Why are clearness and accuracy necessary? Because "seeing" creates "feeling" and 
"feeling" creates "being." First the mental, then the emotional, then the illimitable 
possibilities of achievement. , 

65. How are they obtained? Each repeated action renders the image more accurate than 
the former one. 

66. How is the material for the construction of your mental image secured? By 
millions of mental workers. Brain cells they are called. 

67. How are the necessary conditions for bringing about the materialization of your 
ideal in the objective world secured? By the Law of Attraction. The natural law by 
which all conditions and experiences are brought about. 

68. What three steps are necessary in order to bring this law into operation? Earnest 
Desire, Confident Expectation, Firm Demand. 

69. Why do many fail? Because they concentrate on loss, disease and disaster. The law 
is operating perfectly; the things they fear are coming upon them. 

70. What is the alternative? Concentrate on the ideals which you desire to see 
manifested in your life. 


aD 


INTRODUCTION - PART EIGHT 


In this Part you will find that you may freely choose what you think but the result of 
your thought is governed by an immutable law! Is not this a w onderful thought? Is it not 
wonderful to know that our lives are not subject to caprice or variability of any kind? 
That they are governed by law. This stability is our opportunity, because by complying 
with the law we can secure the desired effect with invariable precision. It is the Law 
which makes the Universe one grand paean of Harmony. If it were not for law, the 
Universe would be a Chaos instead of a Cosmos. 

Here, then, is the secret of the origin of booth good and evil, this is all the good and 
evil there ever was or ever will be. 

Let me illustrate. Thought results in action, if your thought is constructive and 
harmonious, the result will be good; if your thought is destructive or in harmonious, the 
result will be evil. 

There is therefore but one law, one principle, on cause, one Source of Power, and 
good and evil are simply words which have been coined to indicate the result of our 
action, or our compliance or non-compliance with this law. 

The importance of this is well illustrated in the lives of Emerson and Carlyle. 
Emerson loved the good and his life was a symphony of peace and harmony, Carlyle 
hated the bad, and his life was a record of perpetual discord and inharmony. 

Here we have two grand men, each intent upon achieving the same ideal, but one 
makes use of constructive thought and is therefore in harmony with Natural Law, the 
other makes use of destructive thought and therefore brings upon himself discord of 
every kind and character. 

It is evident therefore that we are to hate nothing, not even the "bad," because hatred 
is destructive, and we shall soon find that by entertaining destructive thought we are 
sowing the "wind" and in turn shall reap the "whirlwind." 


a 
nN 


10. 


PART EIGHT 


Thought contains a vital principle, because it is the creative principle of the 
Universe and by its nature will combine with other similar thoughts. 


As the one purpose of life is growth, all principles underlying existence must 
contribute to give it effect. Thought, therefore, takes form and the law of growth 
eventually brings it into manifestation. 


You may freely choose what you think, but the result of your thought is governed 
by an immutable law. Any line of thought persisted in cannot fail to produce its 
result in the character, health and circumstances of the individual. Methods 
whereby we can substitute habits of constructive thinking for those which we 
have found produce only undesirable effects are therefore of primary importance. 


We all know that this is by no means easy. Mental habits are difficult to control, 
but it can be done and the way to do it is to begin at once to substitute 
constructive thought for destructive thought. Form the habit of analyzing every 
thought. If it is necessary, if its manifestation in the objective will be a benefit, not 
only to yourself, but to all whom it may affect in any way, keep it; treasure it; it is 
of value; it 1s in tune with the Infinite; it will grow and develop and produce fruit 
an hundred fold. On the other hand, it will be well for you to keep this quotation 
from George Matthews Adams, in mind, "Learn to keep the door shut, keep out of 
your mind, out of your office, and out of your world, every element that seeks 
admittance with no definite helpful end in view." 


If your thought has been critical or destructive, and has resulted in any condition 
of discord or inharmony in your environment, it may be necessary for you to 
cultivate a mental attitude which will be conducive to constructive thought. 


The imagination will be found to be a great assistance in this direction; the 
cultivation of the imagination leads to the development of the ideal out of which 
your future will emerge. 


The imagination gathers up the material by which the Mind weaves the fabric in 
which your future is to be clothed. 


Imagination is the light by which we can penetrate new worlds of thought and 
experience. 


Imagination is the mighty instrument by which every discoverer, every inventor, 
opened the way from precedent to experience. Precedent said, "It cannot be 
done;" experience said, "It is done." 


Imagination is a plastic power, molding the things of sense into new forms and 
ideals. 


a 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


193 


Imagination is the constructive form of thought which must precede every 
constructive form of action. ; 


A builder cannot build a structure of any kind until he has first received the plans 
from the architect, and the architect must get them from his imagination. 


The Captain of Industry cannot build a giant corporation which may coordinate 
hundreds of smaller corporations and thousands of employees, and utilize millions 
of dollars of capital until he has first created the entire work in his imagination. 
Objects in the material world are as clay in the potter's hand; it is in the Master 
Mind that the real things are created, and it is by the use of the imagination that 
the work is done. In order to cultivate the imagination it must be exercised. 
Exercise is necessary to cultivate mental muscle as well as physical muscle. It 
must be supplied with nourishment or it cannot grow. 


Do not confuse Imagination with Fancy, or that form of day dreaming in which 
some people like to indulge. Day dreaming is a form of mental dissipation which 
may lead to mental disaster. 


Constructive imagination means mental labor, by some considered to be the 
hardest kind of labor, but, if so, it yields the greatest returns, for all the great 
things in life have come to men and women who had the capacity to think, to 
imagine, and to make their dreams come true. 


When you have become thoroughly conscious of the fact that Mind is the only 
creative principle, that it is Omnipotent, Omniscient and Omnipresent, and that 
you can consciously come into harmony with this Omnipotence through your 
power of thought, you will have taken a long step in the right direction. 


The next step is to place yourself in position to receive this power. As it is 
Omnipresent, it must be within you. We know that this is so because we know 
that all power is from within, but it must be developed, unfolded, cultivated; in 
order to do this we must be receptive, and this receptivity is acquired just as 
physical strength is gained, by exercise. 


The law of attraction will certainly and unerringly bring to you the conditions, 
environment, and experiences in life, corresponding with your habitual, 
characteristic, predominant mental attitude. Not what you think once in a while 


when you are in church, or have just read a good book, BUT your predominant 
mental attitude is what counts. 


You can not entertain weak, harmful, negative thoughts ten hours a day and 


expect to bring about beautiful, strong and harmonious conditions by ten minutes 
of strong, positive, creative thought. 


58 


20. 


21 


223 


23. 


24. 


26. 


aT 


28. 


Real power comes from within. All power that anybody can possibly use is within 
man, only waiting to be brought into visibility by his first recognizing it, and then 
affirming it as his, working it into his consciousness until he becomes one with it. 


- People say that they desire abundant life, and so they do, but so many interpret 


this to mean that if they will exercise their muscles or breathe scientifically, eat 
certain foods in certain ways, drink so many glasses of water every day of just a 
certain temperature, keep out of drafts, they will attain the abundant life they seek. 
The result of such methods is but indifferent. However, when man awakens to the 
truth, and affirms his oneness with all Life, he finds that he takes on the clear Eve, 
the elastic step, the vigor of youth; he finds that he has discovered the source of 
all power. 


All mistakes are but the mistakes of ignorance. Knowledge gaining and 
consequent power is what determines growth and evolution. The recognition and 
demonstration of knowledge is what constitutes power, and this power is spiritual 
power, and this spiritual power is the power which lies at the heart of all things; it 
is the soul of the universe. 


This knowledge is the result of man's ability to think; thought is therefore the 
germ of man's conscious evolution. When man ceases to advance in his thoughts 
and ideals, his forces immediately begin to disintegrate and his countenance 
gradually registers these changing conditions. 


Successful men make it their business to hold ideals of the conditions which they 
wish to realize. They constantly hold in mind the next step necessary to the ideal 
for which they are striving. Thoughts are the materials with which they build, and 
the imagination is their mental work-shop. Mind is the ever moving force with 
which they secure the persons and circumstance necessary to build their success 
structure, and imagination is the matrix in which all great things are fashioned. 


. If you have been faithful to your ideal, you will hear the call when circumstances 


are ready to materialize your plans and results will correspond in the exact ratio of 
your fidelity to your ideal. The ideal steadily held is what pre-determines and 
attracts the necessary conditions for its fulfillment. 


It is thus that you may weave a garment of spirit and power into the web of your 
entire existence; it is thus that you may lead a charmed life and be forever 
protected from all harm; it is thus that you may become a positive force whereby 
conditions of opulence and harmony may be attracted to you. 


This is the leaven which is gradually permeating the general consciousness and is 
largely responsible for the conditions of unrest which are everywhere evident. 


In the last Part you created a mental image, you brought it from the invisible into 
the visible; this week I want you to take an object and follow it back to its 


ae 


29; 


30. 


SL: 


32. 


origination, see of what it really consists. If you do this you will develop . 
imagination, insight, perception, and sagacity. These come not by the superficial 
observation of the multitude, but by a keen analytical observation which sees 
below the surface. 


It is the few who know that the things which they see are only effects, and 
understand the causes by which these effects were brought into existence. 


Take the same position as heretofore and visualize a Battleship; see the grim 
monster floating on the surface of the water; there appears to be no life anywhere 
about; all is silence; you know that by far the largest part of the vessel is under 
water; out of sight; you know that the ship is as large and as heavy as a twenty- 
story skyscraper; you know that there are hundreds of men ready to spring to their 
appointed task instantly; you know that every department is in charge of able, 
trained, skilled officials who have proven themselves competent to take charge of 
this marvelous piece of mechanism; you know that although it lies apparently 
oblivious to everything else, it has eyes which see everything for miles around, 
and nothing is permitted to escape its watchful vision; you know that while it 
appears quiet, submissive and innocent, it is prepared to hurl a steel projectile 
weighing thousands of pounds at an enemy many miles away; this and much more 
you can bring to mind with comparatively no effort whatever. But how did the 
battleship come to be where it is; how did it come into existence in the first place? 
All of this you want to know if you are a careful observer. 


Follow the great steel plates through the foundries, see the thousands of men 
employed in their production; go still further back, and see the ore as it comes 
from the mine, see it loaded on barges or cars, see it melted and properly treated; 
go back still further and see the architect and engineers who planned the vessel; 
let the thought carry you back still further in order to determine why they planned 
the vessel; you will see that you are now so far back that the vessel is something 
intangible, it no longer exists, it is now only a thought existing in the brain of the 
architect; but from where did the order come to plan the vessel? Probably from 
the Secretary of Defense; but probably this vessel was planned long before the 
war was thought of, and that Congress had to pass a bill appropriating the money; 
possibly there was opposition, and speeches for or against the bill. Whom do 
these Congressmen represent? They represent you and me, so that our line of 
thought begins with the Battleship and ends with ourselves, and we find in the last 
analysis that our own thought is responsible for this and many other things, of 
which we seldom think, and a little further reflection will develop the most 
important fact of all and that is, if someone had not discovered the law by which 
this tremendous mass of steel and iron could be made to float upon the water, 


instead of immediately going to the bottom, the battleship could not have come 
into existence at all. 


This law is that, "the specific gravity of any substance is the weight of any 
volume of it, compared with an equal volume of water." The discovery of this law 


60 


revolutionized every kind of ocean travel, commerce and warfare, and made the 
existence of the battleship, aircraft carriers, and cruise ships possible. 


33. You will find exercises of this kind invaluable. When the thought has been trained 
to look below the surface everything takes on a different appearance, the 
insignificant becomes significant, the uninteresting interesting; the things which 


we supposed to be of no importance are seen to be the only really vital things in 
existence. 


Look To This Day 
For it is Life, the very Life of Life. 
In Its brief course lie all the Verities and 
Realities of your existence; 
The Bliss of Growth; 
The Glory of Action; 
The Splendor of Beauty; 
For Yesterday is but a Dream, 
And tomorrow is only a Vision: 
But Today well lived makes every 
Yesterday a Dream of Happiness, and 
Every Tomorrow a Vision of Hope. 
Look well, therefore, to This Day! 

- From the Sanskrit. 


61 


PART EIGHT Study Questions with Answers 


71. What is the imagination? A form of constructive thought. The light by which we 
penetrate new worlds of thought and experience. The mighty instrument by which every 
inventor or discoverer opened the way from precedent to experience. 

72. What is the result of imagination? The cultivation of the imagination leads to the 
development of the ideal out of which your future will emerge. 

73. How may it be cultivated? By exercise; it must be supplied with nourishment or it 
cannot live. 

74. How does imagination differ from day dreaming? Day dreaming is a form of 
mental dissipation, while imagination is a form of constructive thought which must 
precede every constructive action. 

75. What are mistakes? The result of ignorance. 

76. What is knowledge? The result of man's ability to think. 

77. What is the power with which successful men build? Mind is the very moving 
force with which they secure the persons and circumstances necessary to complete their 
plans. 

78. What pre-determines the result? The ideal held steadily in mind attracts the 
necessary conditions for its fulfillment. 

79. What is the result of a keen analytical observation? The development of 
imagination, insight, perception and sagacity. 

80. To what do these lead? Opulence and harmony. 


62 


INTRODUCTION - PART NINE 


In this Part you may learn to fashion the tools by which you may build for yourself 
any condition you desire. 

If you wish to change conditions you must change yourself. Your whims, your 
wishes, your fancies, your ambitions may be thwarted at every step, but your inmost 
thoughts will find expression just as certainly as the plant springs from the seed. 

Suppose, then, we desire to change conditions, how are we to bring this about? The 
reply is simple: By the law of growth. Cause and effect are as absolute and undeviating in 
the hidden realm of thought as in the world of material things. 

Hold in mind the condition desired; affirm it as an already existing fact. This 
indicates the value of a powerful affirmation. By constant repetition it becomes a part of 
ourselves. We are actually changing ourselves; are making ourselves what we want to be. 

Character is not a thing of chance, but it is the result of continued effort. If you are 
timid, vacillating, self-conscious, or if you are over-anxious or harassed by thoughts of 
fear or impending danger, remember that is axiomatic that "two things cannot exist in the 
same place at the same time." Exactly the same thing is true in the mental and spiritual 
world; so that your remedy is plainly to substitute thoughts of courage, power, self- 
reliance and confidence, for those of fear, lack and limitation. 

The easiest and most natural way to do this is to select an affirmation which seems to 
fit your particular case. The positive thought will destroy the negative as certainly as light 
destroys darkness, and the results will be just as effectual. 

Act is the blossom of thought, and conditions are the result of action, so that you 
constantly have in your possession the tools by which you will certainly and inevitably 
make or unmake yourself, and joy or suffering will be the reward. 


63 


PART NINE 


. There are only three things which can possibly be desired in the "world without" 
and each of them can be found in the "world within." The secret of finding them 
is simply to apply the proper "mechanism" of attachment to the omnipotent power 
to which each individual has access. 


. The three things which all mankind desires and which are necessary for his 
highest expression and complete development are Health, Wealth and Love. All 
will admit that Health is absolutely essential; no one can be happy if the physical 
body is in pain. All will not so readily admit that Wealth is necessary, but all must 
admit that a sufficient supply at least is necessary, and what would be considered 
sufficient for one, would be considered absolute and painful lack for another; and 
as Nature provides not only enough but abundantly, wastefully, lavishly, we 
realize that any lack or limitation is only the limitation which has been made by 
an artificial method of distribution. 


. All will probably admit that Love is the third, or maybe some will say the first 
essential necessary to the happiness of mankind; at any rate, those who possess all 
three, Health, Wealth, and Love, find nothing else which can be added to their cup 
of happiness. 


. We have found that the Universal substance is "All Health," "All Substance" and 


"All Love" and that the mechanism of attachment whereby we can consciously 
connect with this Infinite supply is in our method of thinking. To think correctly 
is therefore to enter into the "Secret Place of the Most High." 


. What shall we think? If we know this we shall have found the proper mechanism 
of attachment which will relate us to "Whatsoever things we desire." This 
mechanism may seem very simple when I give it to you, but read on; you will 
find that it is in reality the "Master-Key," the "Alladin's lamp," if you please; you 
will find that it is the foundation, the imperative condition, the absolute law of 
well-doing, which means, well-being. 


. To think correctly, accurately, we must know the "Truth." The truth then is the 
underlying principle in every business or social relation. It is a condition 
precedent to every right action. To know the truth, to be sure, to be confident, 
affords a satisfaction beside which no other is at all comparable; it is the only 
solid ground in a world of doubt, conflict and danger. 


. To know the Truth is to be in harmony with the Infinite and Omnipotent power. 
To know the truth is, therefore, to connect yourself with a power which is 
irresistible and which will sweep away every kind of discord, inharmony, doubt or 
error of any kind, because the "Truth is mighty and will prevail." 


64 


10. 
relate us to the Infinite? 


LL 


12. 


13. 


14. 


ES, 


The humblest intellect can readily foretell the result of any action when he knows 
that it is based on truth, but the mightiest intellect, the most profound and 
penetrating mind loses its way hopelessly and can form no conception of the 


results which may ensue when his hopes are based on a premise which he knows 
to be false. 


Every action which is not in harmony with Truth, whether through ignorance or 


design, will result in discord, and eventual loss in proportion to its extent and 
character. 


How then are we to know the truth in order to attach this mechanism which will 


We can make no mistake about this if we realize that truth is the vital principle of 
the Universal Mind and is Omnipresent. For instance, if you require health, a 
realization of the fact that the "I" in you is spiritual and that all spirit is one; that 
wherever a part is the whole must be, will bring about a condition of health, 
because every cell in the body must manifest the truth as you see it. If you see 
sickness; they will manifest sickness; if you see perfection they must manifest 
perfection. The affirmation, "I am whole, perfect, strong, powerful, loving, 
harmonious and happy”, will bring about harmonious conditions. The reason for 
this is because the affirmation is in strict accordance with the Truth, and when 
truth appears every form of error or discord must necessarily disappear. 


You have found that the "I" is spiritual, it must necessarily then always be no less 
than perfect, the affirmation. "I am whole, perfect, strong, powerful, loving, 
harmonious and happy" is therefore an exact scientific statement. 


Thought is a spiritual activity and spirit is creative, therefore the result of holding 
this thought in mind, must necessarily bring about conditions in harmony with the 
thought. 


If you require Wealth a realization of the fact that the "I" in you is one with the 
Universal mind which is all substance, and is Omnipotent, will assist you in 
bringing into operation the law of attraction which will bring you into vibration 
with those forces which make for success and bring about conditions of power 
and affluence in direct proportion with the character and purpose of your 
affirmation. 


Visualization is the mechanism of the attachment which you require. 
Visualization is a very different process from seeing; seeing is physical, and is 
therefore related to the objective world, the "world without," but Visualization is a 
product of the imagination, and is therefore a product of the subjective mind, the 
"world within." It therefore possesses vitality; it will grow. The thing visualized 
will manifest itself in form. The mechanism is perfect; it was created by the 
Master Architect who "doeth all things well," but unfortunately sometimes the 


65 


16. 


Ls 


18. 


19. 


20. 


7A Ws 


22. 


23. 


24. 


operator is inexperienced or inefficient, but practice and determination will 
overcome this defect. 


If you require Love try to realize that the only way to get love is by giving it, that 
the more you give the more you will get, and the only way in which you can give 
it, is to fill yourself with it, until you become a magnet. The method was 
explained in another lesson. 


He who has learned to bring the greatest spiritual truths into touch with the so- 
called lesser things of life has discovered the secret of the solution of his problem. 
One is always quickened, made more thoughtful, by his nearness of approach to 
great ideas, great events, great natural objects, and great men. Lincoln is said to 
have begotten in all who came near him the feeling awakened when one 
approaches a mountain, and this sense asserts itself most keenly when one comes 
to realize that he has laid hold upon things that are eternal, the power of Truth. 


It is sometimes an inspiration to hear from someone who has actually put these 
principles to the test, someone who has demonstrated them in their own life. A 
letter from Frederick Andrews offers the following insight: 


I was about thirteen years old when Dr. T. W. Marsee, since passed over, said to 
my mother: "There is no possible chance, Mrs. Andrews. I lost my little boy the 
same way, after doing everything for him that it was possible to do. I have made a 
special study of these cases, and I know there is no possible chance for him to get 
well." 


She turned to him and said: "Doctor, what would you do if he were your boy?" 
and he answered, "I would fight, fight, as long as there is a breath of life to fight 
for." 


That was the beginning of a long drawn-out battle, with many ups and downs, the 
doctors all agreeing that there was no chance for a cure, though they encouraged 
and cheered us the best they could. 


But at last the victory came, and I have grown from a little, crooked, twisted, 


cripple, going about on my hands and knees, to a strong, straight, well formed 
man. 


Now, I know you want the formula, and I will give it to you as briefly and quickly 
as I can. 


I built up an affirmation for myself, taking the qualities I most needed, and 
affirming for myself over and over again, "I am whole, perfect, strong, powerful, 
loving, harmonious and happy." I kept up this affirmation, always the same, never 
varying, till I could wake up in the night and find myself repeating, "I am whole, 


66 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


perfect, strong, powerful, loving, harmonious and happy." It was the last thing on 
my lips at night and the first thing in the morning. 


Not only did I affirm it for myself, but for others that I knew needed it. I want to 
emphasize this point. Whatever you desire for yourself, affirm it for others, and it 
will help you both. We reap what we sow. If we send out thoughts of love and 
health, they return to us like bread cast upon the waters; but if we send out 


thoughts of fear, worry, jealousy, anger, hate, etc., we will reap the results in our 
own lives. 


It used to be said that man is completely built over every seven years, but some 
scientists now declare that we build ourselves over entirely every eleven months; 
so we are really only eleven months old. If we build the defects back into our 
bodies year after year, we have no one to blame but ourselves. 


Man is the sum total of his own thoughts; so the question is, how are we going to 
entertain only the good thoughts and reject the evil ones? At first we can't keep 
the evil thoughts from coming, but we can keep from entertaining them. The only 
way to do this is to forget them -- which means, get something for them. This is 
where the ready-made affirmation comes into play. 


When a thought of anger, jealousy, fear or worry creeps in, just start your 
affirmation going. The way to fight darkness is with light -- the way to fight cold 
is with heat -- the way to overcome evils is with good. For myself, I never could 
find any help in denials. Affirm the good, and the bad will vanish. - Frederick 
Elias Andrews 


If there is anything you require, it will be well for you to make use of this 
affirmation; it cannot be improved upon. Use it just as it is; take it into the silence 
with you, until it sinks into your subconsciousness, so that you can use it 
anywhere, in your car, in the office, at home; this is the advantage of spiritual 
methods; they are always available. Spirit 1s omnipresent, every ready; all that is 
required is a proper recognition of its omnipotence, and a willingness or desire to 
become the recipient of its beneficent effects. 


If our predominant mental attitude is one of power, courage, kindliness and 
sympathy, we shall find that our environment will reject conditions in 
correspondence with these thoughts; if it is weak, critical, envious and destructive, 
we shall find our environment reflecting conditions corresponding to these 
thoughts. 


Thoughts are causes and conditions are effects. Herein is the explanation of the 
origin of both good and evil. Thought is creative and will automatically correlate 
with its object. This is a Cosmological law (a universal law), the law of 
Attraction, the law of Cause and Effect; the recognition and application of this 
law will determine both beginning and end; it is the law by which in all ages and 


67 


32. 


Bh 


34. 


in all times the people were led to believe in the power of prayer. "As thy faith is, 
so be it unto thee," is simply another, shorter and a better way of stating it. 


This week visualize a plant; take a flower, the one you most admire, bring it from 
the unseen into the seen, plant the tiny seed, water it, care for it, place it where it 
will get the direct rays of the morning sun, see the seed burst; it is now a living 
thing, something which is alive and beginning to search for the means of 
subsistence. See the roots penetrating the earth, watch them shoot out in all 
directions and remember that they are living cells dividing and subdividing, and 
that they will soon number millions, that each cell is intelligent, that it knows 
what is wants and knows how to get it. See the stem shoot forward and upward, 
watch it burst through the surface of the earth, see it divide and form branches, 
see how perfect and symmetrical each branch is formed, see the leaves begin to 
form, and then the tiny stems, each one holding aloft a bud, and as you watch you 
see the bud begin to unfold and your favorite flower comes to view; and now if 
you will concentrate intently you will become conscious of a fragrance; it is the 
fragrance of the flower as the breeze gently sways the beautiful creation which 
you have visualized. 


When you are enabled to make your vision clear and complete you will be 
enabled to enter into the spirit of a thing; it will become very real to you; you will 
be learning to concentrate and the process is the same, whether you are 
concentrating on health, a favorite flower, an ideal, a complicated business 
proposition or any other problem of life. 


Every success has been accomplished by persistent concentration upon the object 
in view. 


68 


PART NINE Study Questions with Answers 


81. What is the imperative condition of all well-being? Well doing. 

82. What is the condition precedent to every right action? Right thinking. 

83. What is the underlying condition necessary in every business transaction or 
social relation? To know the Truth. 

84. What is the result of a knowledge of the Truth? We can readily predict the result 
of any action that is based upon a true premise. 

85. What is the result of any action based upon a false premise? We can form no 
conception of the results which may ensue. 

86. How may we know the Truth? By a realization of the fact that Truth is the vital 
principle of the Universe and is therefore omnipresent. 

87. What is the nature of Truth? It is spiritual. 

88. What is the secret of the solution to every problem? To apply spiritual Truth. 
89. What is the advantage of spiritual methods? They are always available. 

90. What are the necessary requirements? A recognition of the omnipotence of 
spiritual power and a desire to become the recipient of its beneficent effects. 


"Thought means life, since those who do not think do not live in any high or real sense. 
Thinking makes the man." - A. B. Alcott 


69 


INTRODUCTION - PART TEN 


If you get a thorough understanding or the thought contained in Part Ten, you will 
have learned that nothing happens without a definite cause. You will be enabled to 
formulate your plans in accordance with exact knowledge. You will know how to control 
any situation by bringing adequate causes into play. When you win, as you will, you will 
know exactly why. 

The ordinary man, who has no definite knowledge of cause and effect, is governed by 
his feelings or emotions. He thinks chiefly to justify his action. If he fails as a 
businessman, he says that luck is against him. If he dislikes music, he says that music is 
an expensive luxury. If he is a poor office man, he says that he could succeed better at 
some outdoor work. If he lacks friends, he says his individuality is too fine to be 
appreciated. 

He never thinks his problem through to the end. In short, he does not know that every 
effect is the result of a certain definite cause, but he seeks to console himself with 
explanations and excuses. He thinks only in self-defense. 

On the contrary, the man who understands that there is no effect without an adequate 
cause thinks impersonally. He gets down to bed rock facts regardless of consequences. 
He is free to follow the trail of truth wherever it may lead. He sees the issue clear to the 
end, and he meets the requirements fully and fairly, and the result is that the world gives 
him all that it has to give, in friendship, honor, love and approval. 


70 


PART TEN 


. Abundance is a natural law of the Universe. The evidence of this law is 


conclusive; we see it on every hand. Everywhere Nature is lavish, wasteful, 
extravagant. Nowhere is economy observed in any created thing. Profusion is 
manifested in everything. The millions and millions of trees and flowers and 
plants and animals and the vast scheme of reproduction where the process of 
creating and recreating is forever going on, all indicates the lavishness with which 
Nature has made provision for man. That there is an abundance for everyone is 
evident, but that many fail to participate in this abundance is also evident; they 
have not yet come into a realization of the Universality of all substance, and that 
mind is the active principle whereby we are related to the things we desire. 


. All wealth is the offspring of power; possessions are of value only as they confer 
power. Events are significant only as they affect power; all things represent 
certain forms and degrees of power. 


Knowledge of cause and effect as shown by the laws governing electricity, 
chemical affinity and gravitation, enables man to plan courageously and execute 
fearlessly. These laws are called Natural Laws, because they govern in the 
physical world, but all power is not physical power; there is also mental power, 
and there 1s moral and spiritual power. 


Spiritual power is superior because it exists on a higher plane. It has enabled man 
to discover the law by which these wonderful forces of Nature could be harnessed 
and made to do the work of hundreds and thousands of men. It has enabled man to 
discover laws whereby time and space have been annihilated and the law of 
gravitation to be overcome. The operation of this law is dependent upon spiritual 
contact, as Henry Drummond well says: 


"In the physical world as we know it, there exists the organic and the inorganic. 
The inorganic of the mineral world is absolutely cut off from the plant or animal 
world; the passage is hermetically sealed. These barriers have never yet been 
crossed. No change of substance, no modification of environment, no chemistry, 
no electricity, no form of energy, no evolution of any kind can ever endow a 
single atom of the mineral world with the attribute of Life.” 


"Only by the bending down into this dead world of some living form can those 
dead atoms be gifted with the properties of vitality; without this contact with life 
they remain fixed in the inorganic sphere forever. Huxley says that the doctrine of 
Biogenesis (or life only from life) is victorious all along the line, and Tyndall is 
compelled to say: 'I affirm that no shred of trustworthy evidence exists to prove 
that life in our day has ever appeared independent of antecedent life.’ 


"Physical laws may explain the inorganic, Biology explains and accounts for the 
development of the organic, but of the point of contact Science is silent. A similar 


dah 


10. 


11. 


12, 


13. 


14. 


passage exists between the Natural world and the Spiritual world; this passage is 
hermetically sealed on the natural side. The door is closed; no man can open It, no 
organic change, no mental energy, no moral effort, no progress of any kind can 
enable any human being to enter the spiritual world." 


But as the plant reaches down into the mineral world and touches it with the 
mystery of Life, so the Universal Mind reaches down into the human mind and 
endows it with new, strange, wonderful and even marvelous qualities. All men or 
women who have every accomplished anything in the world of industry, 
commerce or art have accomplished because of this process. 


Thought is the connecting link between the Infinite and the finite, between the 
Universal and the individual. We have seen that there is an impassable barrier 
between the organic and the inorganic, and that the only way that matter can 
unfold is to be impregnated with life; as a seed reaches down into the mineral 
world and begins to unfold and reach out, the dead matter begins to live, a 
thousand invisible fingers begin to weave a suitable environment for the new 
arrival, and as the law of growth begins to take effect, we see the process continue 
until the Lily finally appears, and even "Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed 
like one of these". 


Even so, a thought is dropped into the invisible substance of the Universal Mind, 
that substance from which all things are created, and as it takes root, the law of 
growth begins to take effect and we find that conditions and environment are but 
the objective form of our thought. 


The law is that Thought is an active vital form of dynamic energy which has the 
power to correlate with its object and bring it out of the invisible substance from 
which all things are created into the visible or objective world. This is the law by 
which, and through which all things come into manifestation; it is the Master Key 
by which you are admitted into the Secret Place of the Most High and are "given 
dominion over all things." With an understanding of this law you may "decree a 
thing and it shall be established unto thee." 


It could not be otherwise; if the soul of the Universe as we know it is the 
Universal Spirit, then the Universe is simply the condition which the Universal 
Spirit has made for itself. We are simply individualized spirit and are creating the 
conditions for our growth in exactly the same way. 


This creative power depends upon our recognition of the potential power of spirit 
or mind and must not be confused with Evolution. Creation is the calling into 
existence of that which does not exist in the objective world. Evolution is simply 
the unfolding of potentialities involved in things which already exist. 


In taking advantage of the wonderful possibilities opened up to us through the 
operation of this law, we must remember that we ourselves contribute nothing to 


#2 


15, 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


its efficacy as the Great Teacher said: "It is not I that doeth the works, but the 
Father that dwelleth in me, He doeth the work". We must take exactly the same 
position; we can do nothing to assist in the manifestation, we simply comply with 
the law, and the All-originating Mind will bring about the result. 


The great error of the present day is the idea that Man has to originate the 
intelligence whereby the Infinite can proceed to bring about a specific purpose or 
result. Nothing of this kind is necessary; the Universal Mind can be depended 
upon to find the ways and means for bringing about any necessary manifestation. 
We must, however, create the ideal, and this ideal should be perfect. 


We know that the laws governing Electricity have been formulated in such a way 
that this invisible power can be controlled and used for our benefit and comfort in 
thousands of ways. We know that messages are carried around the world, that 
ponderous machinery does its bidding, that it now illuminates practically the 
whole world, but we know too that if we consciously or ignorantly violate its law 
by touching a live wire, when it is not properly insulated, the result will be 
unpleasant and possibly disastrous. A lack of understanding of the laws governing 
in the invisible world has the same result, and many are suffering the 
consequences all the time. 


It has been explained that the law of causation depends upon polarity, a circuit 
must be formed; this circuit cannot be formed unless we operate in harmony with 
the law. How shall we operate in harmony with the law unless we know what the 
law is? How shall we know what the Law is? By study, by observation. 


We see the law in operation everywhere; all nature testifies to the operation of the 
law by silently, constantly expressing itself in the law of growth. Where there is 
growth, there must be life; where there is life there must be harmony, so that 
everything that has life is constantly attracting to itself the conditions and the 
supply which is necessary for its most complete expression. 


If your thought is in harmony with the creative Principle of Nature, it is in tune 
with the Infinite Mind, and it will form the circuit, it will not return to you void; 
but it is possible for you to think thoughts that are not in tune with the Infinite, 
and when there is no polarity, the circuit is not formed. What, then, is the result? 
What is the result when a dynamo is generating electricity, the circuit is cut off 
and there is no outlet? The dynamo stops. 


It will be exactly the same with you, if you entertain thoughts which are not in 
accordance with the Infinite and cannot therefore be polarized; there is no circuit, 
you are isolated, the thoughts cling to you, harass you, worry you, and finally 
bring about disease and possibly death; the physician may not diagnose the case 
exactly in this way, he may give it some fancy name which has been 
manufactured for the various ills which are the result of wrong thinking, but the 
cause is the same nevertheless. 


73 


21. Constructive thought must necessarily be creative, but creative thought must be 
harmonious, and this eliminates all destructive or competitive thought. Wisdom, 
strength, courage and all harmonious conditions are the result of power and we 
have seen that all power is from within; likewise, every lack, limitation or adverse 
circumstance is the result of weakness, and weakness is simply absence of power; 
it comes from nowhere, it is nothing -- the remedy then is simply to develop 
power, and this is accomplished in exactly the same manner that all power is 
developed, by exercise. 


22. This exercise consists in making an application of your knowledge. Knowledge 
will not apply itself. You must make the application. Abundance will not come to 
you out of the sky, neither will it drop into your lap, but a conscious realization of 
the law of attraction and the intention to bring it into operation for a certain, 
definite and specific purpose, and the will to carry out this purpose will bring 
about the materialization of your desire by a natural law of transference. If you 
are in business, it will increase and develop along regular channels, possibly new 
or unusual channels of distribution will be opened and when the law becomes 
fully operative, you will find that the things you seek are seeking you. 


23. This week select a blank space on the wall, or any other convenient spot, from 
where you usually sit, mentally draw a black horizontal line about six inches long, 
try to see the line as plainly as though it were painted on the wall; now mentally 
draw two vertical lines connecting with this horizontal line at either end; now 
draw another horizontal line connecting with the two vertical lines; now you have 
a square. Try to see the square perfectly; when you can do so draw a circle within 
the square; now place a point in the center of the circle; now draw the point 
toward you about 10 inches; now you have a cone on a square base; you will 
remember that your work was all in black; change it to white, to red, to yellow. 


24. If you can do this, you are making excellent progress and will soon be enabled to 
concentrate on any problem you may have in mind. "When any object or purpose 
is clearly held in thought, its precipitation, in tangible and visible form, is merely 
a question of time. 


“The vision always precedes and itself determines the realization.” - Lillian Whiting 


74 


PART TEN Study Questions with Answers 


91. What is Wealth? Wealth is the offspring of power. 

92. Of what value are possessions? Possessions are of value only as they confer power. 
93. Of what value is a knowledge of cause and effect? It enables men to plan 
courageously and execute fearlessly. 

94. How does life originate in the inorganic world? Only by the introduction of some 
living form. There is no other way. 

95. What is the connecting link between the finite and the Infinite? Thought is the 
connecting link: 

96. Why is that so? Because the Universal can manifest only through the individual. 
97. Upon what does causation depend? Upon polarity; a circuit must be formed; the 
Universal is the positive side of the battery of life, the individual is the negative, and 
thought forms the circuit. 

98. Why do many fail to secure harmonious conditions? They do not understand the 
law; there is no polarity; they have not formed the circuit. 

99. What is the remedy? A conscious recognition of the law of attraction with the 
intention of bring it into existence for a definite purpose. 

100. What will be the result? Thought will correlate with its object and bring it into 
manifestation, because thought is a product of the spiritual man, and spirit is the creative 
Principle of the Universe. 


“A vivid thought brings the power to paint it; and in proportion to the depth of its source 
is the force of its projection.” - Emerson 


w5 


INTRODUCTION - PART ELEVEN 


Your life is governed by law - by actual, immutable principles that never vary. Law is 
in operation at all times; in all places. Fixed laws underlie all human actions. For this 
reason, men who control giant industries are enabled to determine with absolute precision 
just what percentage of every hundred thousand people will respond to any given set of 
conditions. 

It is well, however, to remember that while every effect is the result of a cause, the 
effect in turn becomes a cause, which creates other effects, which in turn create still other 
causes; so that when you put the law of attraction into operation you must remember that 
you are starting a train of causation for good or otherwise which may have endless 
possibilities. 

We frequently hear it said, "A very distressing situation came into my life, which 
could not have been the result of my thought, as I certainly never entertained any thought 
which could have such a result." We fail to remember that like attracts like in the mental 
world, and that the thought which we entertain brings to us certain friendships, 
companionships of a particular kind, and these in turn bring about conditions and 
environment, which in turn are responsible for the conditions of which we complain. 


76 


PART ELEVEN 


Inductive reasoning is the process of the objective mind by which we compare a 
number of separate instances with one another until we see the common factor 
that gives rise to them all. 


Induction proceeds by comparison of facts; it is this method of studying nature 
which has resulted in the discovery of a reign of law which has marked an epoch 
in human progress. 


It is the dividing line between superstition and intelligence; it has eliminated the 
elements of uncertainty and caprice from men's lives and substituted law, reason, 
and certitude. 


It is the "Watchman at the Gate" mentioned in a former lesson. 


When, by virtue of this principle, the world to which the senses were accustomed 
had been revolutionized; when the sun had been arrested in his course, the 
apparently flat earth had been shaped into a ball and set whirling around him; 
when the inert matter had been resolved into active elements, and the universe 
presented itself wherever we directed the telescope and microscope, full of force, 
motion and life; we are constrained to ask by what possible means the delicate 
forms of organization in the midst of it are kept in order and repair. 


Like poles and like forces repel themselves or remain impenetrable to each other, 
and this cause seems in general sufficient to assign a proper place and distance to 
stars, men and forces. As men of different virtues enter into partnership, so do 
opposite poles attract each other, elements that have no property in common like 
acids and gases cling to each other in preference and a general exchange is kept 
up between the surplus and the demand. 


As the eye seeks and receives satisfaction from colors complementary to those 
which are given, so does need, want and desire, in the largest sense, induce, guide 
and determine action. 


It is our privilege to become conscious of the principle and act in accordance with 
it. Cuvier sees a tooth belonging to an extinct race of animals. This tooth wants a 
body for the performance of its function, and it defines the peculiar body it stands 
in need of with such precision that Cuvier is able to reconstruct the frame of this 


animal. 


Perturbations are observed in the motion of Uranus. Leverrier needs another star 
at a certain place to keep the solar system in order, and Neptune appears in the 
place and hour appointed. 


i. 


10. The instinctive wants of the animal and the intellectual wants of Cuvier, the wants 
of nature and of the mind of Leverrier were alike, and thus the results; here the 
thoughts of an existence, there an existence. A well-defined lawful want, 
therefore, furnishes the reason for the more complex operations of nature. 


11. Having recorded correctly the answers furnished by nature and stretched our 
senses with the growing science over her surface; having joined hands with the 
levers that move the earth; we become conscious of such a close, varied and deep 
contact with the world without, that our wants and purposes become no less 
identified with the harmonious operations of this vast organization, than the life, 
liberty, and happiness of the citizen is identified with the existence of his 
government. 


12. As the interests of the individual are protected by the arms of the country, added 
to his own; and his needs may depend upon certain supply in the degree that they 
are felt more universally and steadily; in the same manner does conscious 
citizenship in the Republic of nature secure us from the annoyances of 
subordinate agents by alliance with superior powers; and by appeal to the 
fundamental laws of resistance or inducement offered to mechanical or chemical 
agents, distribute the labor to be performed between them and man to the best 
advantage of the inventor. 


13. If Plato could have witnessed the pictures executed by the sun with the assistance 
of the photographer, or a hundred similar illustrations of what man does by 
induction, he would perhaps have been reminded of the intellectual midwifery of 
his master and, in his own mind might have arisen the vision of a land where all 
manual, mechanical labor and repetition is assigned to the power of nature, where 
our wants are satisfied by purely mental operations set in motion by the will, and 
where the supply is created by the demand. 


14. However distant that land may appear, induction has taught men to make strides 
toward it and has surrounded him with benefits which are, at the same time, 
rewards for past fidelity and incentives for more assiduous devotion. 


15. It is also an aid in concentrating and strengthening our faculties for the remaining 
part, giving unerring solution for individual as well as universal problems, by the 
mere operations of mind in the purest form. 


16. Here we find a method, the spirit of which is, to believe that what is sought has 
been 


17. accomplished, in order to accomplish it: a method, bequeathed upon us by the 


same Plato who, outside of this sphere, could never find how the ideas became 
realities. 


18. This conception is also elaborated by Swedenborg in his doctrine of 
correspondences; and a still greater teacher has said, "What things soever ye 


78 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


Pale: 


26. 


desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them." 
(Mark 11:24) The difference of the tenses in this passage is remarkable. 


We are first to believe that our desire has already been fulfilled, its 
accomplishment will then follow. This is a concise direction for making use of the 
creative power of thought by impressing on the Universal subjective mind, the 
particular thing which we desire as an already existing fact. 


We are thus thinking on the plane of the absolute and eliminating all 
consideration of conditions or limitation and are planting a seed which, if left 
undisturbed, will finally germinate into external fruition. 


To review: Inductive reasoning is the process of the objective mind, by which we 
compare a number of separate instances with one another until we see the 
common factor that gives rise to them all. We see people in every civilized 
country on the globe, securing results by some process which they do not seem to 
understand themselves, and to which they usually attach more or less mystery. 
Our reason is given to us for the purpose of ascertaining the law by which these 
results are accomplished. 


The operation of this thought process is seen in those fortunate natures that 
possess everything that others must acquire by toil, who never have a struggle 
with conscience because they always act correctly, and can never conduct 
themselves otherwise than with tact, learn everything easily, complete everything 
they begin with a happy knack, live in eternal harmony with themselves, without 
ever reflecting much what they do, or ever experiencing difficulty or toil. 


The fruit of this thought is, as it were, a gift of the gods, but a gift which few as 
yet realize, appreciate, or understand. The recognition of the marvelous power 
which is possessed by the mind under proper conditions and the fact that this 
power can be utilized, directed, and made available for the solution of every 
human problem is of transcendental importance. 


All truth is the same, whether stated in modern scientific terms or in the language 
of apostolic times. There are timid souls who fail to realize that the very 
completeness of truth requires various statement -- that no one human formula 
will show every side of it. 


Changing, emphasis, new language, novel interpretations, unfamiliar perspectives, 
are not, aS some suppose, signs of departure from truth but on the contrary, they 
are evidence that the truth is being apprehended in new relations to human needs, 
and is becoming more generally understood. 


The truth must be told to each generation and to every people in new and different 


terms, so that when the Great Teacher said -- "Believe that ye receive and ye shall 
receive" or, when Paul said -- "Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the 


Wo 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


32. 


33. 


34. 


evidence of things not seen" or, when modern science says -- "The law of 
attraction is the law by which thought correlates with its object", each statement 
when subjected to analysis, is found to contain exactly the same truth. The only 
difference being in the form of presentation. 


We are standing on the threshold of a new era. The time has arrived when man 
has learned the secrets of mastery and the way is being prepared for a new social 
order, more wonderful than anything every heretofore dreamed of. The conflict of 
modern science with theology, the study of comparative religions, the tremendous 
power of new social movements, all of these are but clearing the way for the new 
order. They may have destroyed traditional forms which have become antiquated 
and impotent, but nothing of value has been lost. 


A new faith has been born, a faith which demands a new form of expression, and 
this faith is taking form in a deep consciousness of power which is being 
manifested, in the present spiritual activity found on every hand. 


The spirit which sleeps in the mineral, breathes in the vegetable, moves in the 
animal and reaches its highest development in man is the Universal Mind, and it 
behooves us to span the gulf between being and doing, theory and practice, by 
demonstrating our understanding of the dominion which we have been given. 


By far the greatest discovery of all the centuries 1s the power of thought. The 
importance of this discovery has been a little slow in reaching the general 
consciousness, but it has arrived, and already in every field of research the 
importance of this greatest of all great discoveries is being demonstrated. 


You ask in what does the creative power of thought consist? It consists in creating 
ideas, and these in turn objectify themselves by appropriating, inventing, 
observing, discerning, discovering, analyzing, ruling, governing, combining, and 
applying matter and force. It can do this because it is an intelligent creative 
power. 


Thought reaches its loftiest activity when plunged into its own mysterious depth; 
when it breaks through the narrow compass of self and passes from truth to truth 
to the region of eternal light, where all which is, was or ever will be, melt into one 
grand harmony. 


From this process of self contemplation comes inspiration which is creative 
intelligence, and which is undeniably superior to every element, force or law of 
nature, because it can understand, modify, govern and apply them to its own ends 
and purposes and therefore possess them. 


Wisdom begins with the dawn of reason, and reason is but an understanding of 
the knowledge and principles whereby we may know the true meaning of things. 


80 


35: 


36. 


Wisdom, then, is illuminated reason, and this wisdom leads to humility, for 
humility is a large part of Wisdom. 


We all know many who have achieved the seemingly impossible, who have 
realized life-long dreams, who have changed everything including themselves. 
We have sometimes marveled at the demonstration of an apparently irresistible 
power, which seemed to be ever available just when it was most needed, but it is 
all clear now. All that is required is an understanding of certain definite 
fundamental principles and their proper application. 


For your exercise this week, concentrate on the quotation taken from the Bible, 
"Whatsoever things ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them and ye 
shall have them"; notice that there is no limitation, "Whatsoever things" is very 
definite and implies that the only limitation which is placed upon us in our ability 
to think, to be equal to the occasion, to rise to the emergency, to remember that 
Faith is not a shadow, but a substance, "the substance of things hoped for, the 
evidence of things not seen." 


“Death is but the natural process whereby all material forms are thrown into the 
crucible for reproduction in fresh diversity.” 


81 


PART ELEVEN Study Questions with Answers 


101. What is inductive reasoning? The process of the objective mind by which we 
compare a number of separate instances with each other until we see the common factor 
which gives rise to them all. 

102. What has this method of studying accomplished? It has resulted in the discovery 
of a reign of law which has marked an epoch in human progress. 

103. What is it that guides and determines action? It is need, want and desire which in 
the largest sense induce, guide and determine action. 

104. What is the formula for the unerring solution of every individual problem? We 
are to believe that our desire has already been fulfilled; its accomplishment will then 
follow. 

105. What great Teachers advocated it? Jesus, Plato, Swedenborg. 

106. What is the result of this thought process? We are thinking on the plane of the 
absolute and planting a seed, which if left undisturbed will germinate into fruition. 

107. Why is it scientifically exact? Because it is Natural Law. 

108. What is Faith? "Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things 
unseen." 

109. What is the Law of Attraction? The Law by which Faith is brought into 
manifestation. 

110. What importance do you attach to an understanding of this law? It has 
eliminated the elements of uncertainty and caprice from men's lives and substituted law, 
reason, and certitude. 


82 


INTRODUCTION - PART TWELVE 


Part Twelve is enclosed herewith. In the fourth paragraph you will find the following 
statement: "You must first have the knowledge of your power; second, the courage to 
dare; third, the faith to do." 

If you concentrate upon the thoughts given, if you give them your entire attention, 
you will find a world of meaning in each sentence, and will attract to yourself other 
thoughts in harmony with them, and you will soon grasp the full significance of the vital 
knowledge upon which you are concentrating. 

Knowledge does not apply itself; we as individuals must make the application, and 
the application consists in fertilizing the thought with a living purpose. 

The time and thought which most persons waste in aimless effort would accomplish 
wonders if properly directed with some special object in view. In order to do this, it is 
necessary to center your mental force upon a specific thought and hold it there, to the 
exclusion of all other thoughts. If you have ever looked through the viewfinder on a 
videocamera, you found that when the object was not in focus, the impression was 
indistinct and possibly blurred, but when the proper focus was obtained the picture was 
clear and distinct. This illustrates the power of concentration. Unless you can concentrate 
upon the object which you have in view, you will have but a hazy, indifferent, vague, 
indistinct and blurred outline of your ideal and the results will be in accordance with your 
mental picture. 


83 


PART TWELVE 


1. There is no purpose in life that cannot be best accomplished through a scientific 
understanding of the creative power of thought. 


2. This power to think is common to all. Man is, because he thinks. Man's power to think 
is infinite, consequently his creative power is unlimited. 


3. We know that thought is building for us the thing we think of and actually bringing it 
nearer, yet we find it difficult to banish fear, anxiety or discouragement, all of which are 
powerful thought forces, and which continually send the things we desire further away, 
so that it is often one step forward and two steps backward. 


4. The only way to keep from going backward is to keep going forward. Eternal vigilance 
is the price of success. There are three steps, and each one is absolutely essential. You 
must first have the knowledge of your power; second, the courage to dare; third, the faith 
to do. 


5. With this as a basis you can construct an ideal business, an ideal home, ideal friends, 
and an ideal environment. You are not restricted as to material or cost. Thought is 
omnipotent and has the power to draw on the Infinite bank of primary substance for all 
that it requires. Infinite resources are therefore at your command. 


6. But your ideal must be sharp, clear-cut, definite; to have one ideal today, another 
tomorrow, and a third next week, means to scatter your forces and accomplish nothing; 
your result will be a meaningless and chaotic combination of wasted material. 


7. Unfortunately this is the result which many are securing, and the cause is self evident. 
If a sculptor started out with a piece of marble and a chisel and changed his ideal every 
fifteen minutes, what result could he expect? And why should you expect any different 
result in molding the greatest and most plastic of all substances, the only real substance? 


8. The result of this indecision and negative thought is often found in the loss of material 
wealth. Supposed independence which required many years of toil and effort suddenly 
disappears. It is often found then that money and property are not independence at all. On 
the contrary, the only independence is found to be a practical working knowledge of the 
creative power of thought. 


9. This practical working method cannot come to you until you learn that the only real 
power which you can have is the power to adjust yourself to Divine and unchangeable 
principles. You cannot change the Infinite, but you can come into an understanding of 
Natural laws. The reward of this understanding is a conscious realization of your ability 
to adjust your thought faculties with the Universal Thought which is Omnipresent. Your 
ability to cooperate with this Omnipotence will indicate the degree of success with which 
you meet. 


84 


10. The power of thought has many counterfeits which are more or less fascinating, but 
the results are harmful instead of helpful. 


11. Of course, worry, fear, and all negative thoughts produce a crop after their kind; those 
who harbor thoughts of this kind must inevitably reap what they have sown. 


12. Again, there are the Phenomena seekers who gormandize on the so-called proofs and 
demonstration obtained at materializing seances. They throw open their mental doors and 
soak themselves in the most poisonous currents which can be found in the psychic world. 
They do not seem to understand that it is the ability to become negative, receptive and 
passive, and thus drain themselves of all their vital force, which enables them to bring 
about these vibratory thought forms. 


13. There are also the Hindu worshippers, who see in the materializing phenomena which 
are performed by the so-called adepts, a source of power, forgetting, or never seeming to 
realize that as soon as the will is withdrawn the forms wither, and the vibratory forces of 
which they are composed vanish. 


14. Telepathy, or thought transference, has received considerable attention, but as it 
requires a negative mental state on the part of the receiver, the practice is harmful. A 
thought may be sent with the intention of hearing or seeing, but it will bring the penalty 
attached to the inversion of the principle involved. 


15. In many instances, hypnotism 1s positively dangerous to the subject as well as the 
operator. No one familiar with the laws governing in the mental world would think of 
attempting to dominate the will of another, for by so doing, he will gradually (but surely) 
divest himself of his own power. 


16. All of these perversions have their temporary satisfaction and for some a keen 
fascination, but there is an infinitely greater fascination in a true understanding of the 
world of power within, a power which increases with use; is permanent instead of 
fleeing; which not only is potent as a remedial agency to bring about the remedy for past 
error or results of wrong thinking, but is a prophylactic agency protecting us from all 
manner and form of danger, and finally is an actual creative force with which we can 
build new conditions and new environment. 


17. The law is that thought will correlate with its object and bring forth in the material 
world the correspondence of the thing thought or produced in the mental world. We then 
discern the absolute necessity of seeing that every thought has the inherent germ of truth 
in order that the law of growth will bring into manifestation good, for good alone can 


confer any permanent power. 


18. The principle which gives the thought the dynamic power to correlate with its object, 
and therefore to master every adverse human experience, is the law of attraction, which is 
another name for love. This is an eternal and fundamental principle, inherent in all things, 
in every system of Philosophy, in every Religion, and in every Science. There is no 


85 


getting away from the law of love. It is feeling that imparts vitality to thought. Feeling is 
desire, and desire is love. Thought impregnated with love becomes invincible. 


19. We find this truth emphasized wherever the power of thought is understood, The 
Universal Mind is not only Intelligence, but it is substance, and this substance is the 
attractive force which brings electrons together by the law of attraction so that they form 
atoms: the atoms in turn are brought together by the same law and form molecules; 
molecules take objective forms; and so we find that the law of love is the creative force 
behind every manifestation, not only of atoms, but of worlds, of the Universe, of 
everything of which the imagination can form any conception. 


20. It is the operation of this marvelous law of attraction which has caused men in all 
ages and all times to believe that there must be some personal being who responded to 
their petitions and desires, and manipulated events in order to comply with their 
requirements. 


21. It is the combination of Thought and Love which forms the irresistible force, called 
the law of attraction. All natural laws are irresistible, the law of Gravitation, or 
Electricity, or any other law operates with mathematical exactitude. There is no variation, 
it is only the channel of distribution which may be imperfect. If a bridge falls, we do not 
attribute the collapse to any variation of the law of gravitation. If a light fails us, we do 
not conclude that the laws governing electricity cannot be depended upon, and 1f the law 
of attraction seems to be imperfectly demonstrated by an inexperienced or uninformed 
person, we are not to conclude that the greatest and most infallible law upon which the 
entire system of creation depends has been suspended. We should rather conclude that a 
little more understanding of the law is required, for the same reason that a correct 
solution of a difficult problem in Mathematics is not always readily and easily obtained. 


22. Things are created in the mental or spiritual world be fore they appear in the outward 
act or event. by the simple process of governing our thought forces today, we help create 
the events which will come into our lives in the future, perhaps even tomorrow. Educated 
desire is the most potent means of bringing into action the law of attraction. 


23. Man is so constituted that he must first create the tools, or implements by which he 
gains the power to think. The mind cannot comprehend an entirely new idea until a 
corresponding vibratory brain cell has been prepared to receive it. This explains why it is 
so difficult for us to receive or appreciate an entirely new idea; we have no brain cell 
capable of receiving it; we are therefore incredulous; we do not believe it. 


24. If, therefore, you have not been familiar with the Omnipotence of the law of 
attraction, and the scientific method by which it can be put into operation, or if you have 
not been familiar with the unlimited possibilities which it opens to those who are enabled 
to take advantage of the resources it offers, begin now and create the necessary brain cells 
which will enable you to comprehend the unlimited powers which may be yours by 
cooperating with Natural Law. This is done by concentration or attention. 


86 


25. The intention governs the attention. Power comes through repose. It is by 


concentration that deep thoughts, wise speech, and all forces of high potentiality are 
accomplished. 


26. It is in the Silence that you get into touch with the Omnipotent power of the 
subconscious mind from which all power is evolved. 


27. He who desires wisdom, power, or permanent success of any kind will find it only 
within; it is an unfoldment. The unthinking may conclude that the silence is very simple 
and easily attained, but it should be remembered that only in absolute silence may one 
come into contact with Divinity itself; may iearn of the unchangeable law and open for 
himself the channels by which persistent practice and concentration lead to perfection. 


28. This week go to the same room, take the same chair, the same position as previously; 
be sure to relax, let go, both mentally and physically; always do this; never try to do any 
mental work under pressure; see that there are no tense muscles or nerves, that you are 
entirely comfortable. Now realize your unity with omnipotence; get into touch with this 
power, come into a deep and vital understanding, appreciation, and realization of the fact 
that your ability to think is your ability to act upon the Universal Mind, and bring it into 
manifestation, realize that it will meet any and every requirement; that you have exactly 
the same potential ability which any individual ever did have or ever will have, because 
each is but an expression or manifestation of the One, all are parts of the whole, there is 
no difference in kind or quality, the only difference being one of degree. 


"Thought cannot conceive of anything that may not be brought to expression. He who 
first uttered it may be only the suggester, but the doer will appear." - Wilson. 


87 


PART TWELVE Study Questions with Answers 


111. How may any purpose in life be best accomplished? Through a scientific 
understanding of the spiritual nature of thought. 

112. What three steps are absolutely essential? The knowledge of our power, the 
courage to dare, the faith to do. 

113. How is the practical working knowledge secured? By an understanding of 
Natural laws. 

114. What is the reward of an understanding of these laws? A conscious realization of 
our ability to adjust ourselves to Divine and unchanging principle. 

115. What will indicate the degree of success with which we meet? The degree in 
which we realize that we cannot change the Infinite but must cooperate with it. 

116. What is the principle which gives thought its dynamic power? The Law of 
Attraction which rests on vibration, which in turn rests upon the law of love. Thought 
impregnated with love becomes invincible. 

117. Why is this law irresistible? Because it is a Natural law. All Natural laws are 
irresistible and unchangeable and act with mathematical exactitude. There is no deviation 
or variation. 

118. Why then does it sometimes seem to be difficult to find the solution to our 
problems in life? For the same reason that it is sometimes difficult to find the correct 
solution to a difficult mathematical problem. The operator is uninformed or 
inexperienced. 

119. Why is it impossible for the mind to grasp an entirely new idea? We have no 
corresponding vibratory brain cell capable of receiving the idea. 

120. How is wisdom secured? By concentration; it is an unfoldment; it comes from 
within. 


88 


INTRODUCTION - PART THIRTEEN 


Physical science is responsible for the marvelous age of invention in which we are 
now living, but spiritual science is now setting out on a career whose possibilities no one 
can fortell. 

Spiritual science has previously been the football of the uneducated, the superstitious, 
the mystical, but men are now interested in definite methods and demonstrated facts only. 

We have come to know that thinking is a spiritual process, that vision and 
imagination preceded action and event, that the day of the dreamer has come. The 
following lines by Mr. Herbert Kaufman are interesting in this connection. 

"They are the architects of greatness, their vision lies within their souls, they peer 
beyond the veils and mists of doubt and pierce the walls of unborn Time. The belted 
wheel, the trail of steel, the churning screw, are shuttles in the loom on which they weave 
their magic tapestries. Makers of Empire, they have fought for bigger things than crowns 
and higher seats than thrones. Your homes are set upon the land a dreamer found. The 
pictures on its walls are visions from a dreamer's soul. 

They are the chose few -- the blazers of the way. Walls crumble and Empires fall, the 
tidal wave sweeps from the sea and tears a fortress from its rocks. The rotting nations 
drop off from Time's bough, and only things the dreamer's make live on." 

Part Thirteen which follows tells why the dreams of the dreamer come true. It 
explains the law of causation by which dreamers, inventors, authors, financiers, bring 
about the realization of their desires. It explains the law by which the thing pictured upon 
our mind eventually becomes our own. 


89 


PART THIRTEEN 


. It has been the tendency, and, as might be proved, a necessity for science to seek 
the explanation of everyday facts by a generalization of those others which are 
less frequent and form the exception. Thus does the eruption of the volcano 
manifest the heat which is continually at work in the interior of the earth and to 
which the latter owes much of her configuration. 


. Thus does the lightning reveal a subtle power constantly busy to produce changes 
in the inorganic world, and, as dead languages now seldom heard were once 
ruling among the nations, so does a giant tooth in Siberia, or a fossil in the depth 
of the earth, not only bear record of the evolution of past ages, but thereby 
explains to us the origin of the hills and valleys which we inhabit today. 


. In this way a generalization of facts which are rare, strange, or form the 
exception, has been the magnetic needle guiding to all the discoveries of inductive 
science. 


. This method is founded upon reason and experience and thereby destroyed 
superstition, precedent and conventionality. 


. Itis almost three-hundred years since Lord Bacon recommended this method of 
study, to which the civilized nations owe the greater part of their prosperity and 
the more valuable part of their knowledge; purging the mind from narrow 
prejudices, denominated theories, more effectually than by the keenest irony; 
calling the attention of men from heaven to earth more successfully by surprising 
experiments than by the most forcible demonstration of their ignorance; educating 
the inventive faculties more powerfully by the near prospect of useful discoveries 
thrown open to all, than by talk of bringing to light the innate laws of our mind. 


. The method of Bacon has seized the spirit and aim of the great philosophers of 
Greece and carried them into effect by the new means of observation which 
another age offered; thus gradually revealing a wondrous field of knowledge in 
the infinite space of astronomy, in the microscopic egg of embryology, and the 
dim age of geology; disclosing an order of the pulse which the logic of Aristotle 
could never have unveiled, and analyzing into formerly unknown elements the 
material combinations which no dialectic of the scholastics could force apart. 


. It has lengthened life; it has mitigated pain; it has extinguished diseases; it has 
increased the fertility of the soil; it has given new securities to the mariner; it has 
spanned great rivers with bridges of form unknown to our fathers: it has guided 
the thunderbolt from heaven to earth; it has lighted up night with the splendor of 
day; it has extended the range of human vision; it has multiplied the power of the 
human muscles; it has accelerated motion; it has annihilated distance; it has 
facilitated intercourse, correspondence, all friendly offices, all dispatch of 


90 


10. 


11. 


12: 


13. 


14. 


business; it has enabled men to descend into the depths of the sea, to soar into the 
air, to penetrate securely into the noxious recesses of the earth. 

This then is the true nature and scope of induction. But the greater the success 
which men have achieved in the inductive science, the more does the whole tenor 
of their teachings and example impress us with the necessity of observing 
carefully, patiently, accurately, with all the instruments and resources at our 
command the individual facts before venturing upon a statement of general laws. 


To ascertain the bearing of the spark drawn from the electric machine under every 
variety of circumstances, that we thus may be emboldened with Franklin to 
address, in the form of a kite, the question to the cloud about the nature of the 
lightning. To assure ourselves of the manner in which bodies fall with the 
exactness of a Galileo, that with Newton we may dare to ask the moon about the 
force that fastens it to the earth. 


In short, by the value we set upon truth, by our hope in a steady and universal 
progress, not to permit a tyrannical prejudice to neglect or mutilate unwelcome 
facts, but to rear the superstructure of science upon the broad and unchangeable 
basis, of full attention paid to the most isolated as well as the most frequent 
phenomena. 


An ever-increasing material may be collected by observation, but the accumulated 
facts are of very different value for the explanation of nature, and as we esteem 
most highly those useful qualities of men which are of the rarest occurrence, so 
does natural philosophy sift the facts and attach a pre-eminent importance to that 
striking class which cannot be accounted for by the usual and daily observation of 
life. 


If then, we find that certain persons seem to possess unusual power, what are we 
to conclude? First, we may say, it is not so, which is simply an acknowledgment 
of our lack of information because every honest investigator admits that there are 
many strange and previously unaccountable phenomena constantly taking place. 
Those, however, who become acquainted with the creative power of thought, will 
no longer consider them unaccountable. 


Second, we may say that they are the result of supernatural interference, but a 
scientific understanding of Natural Laws will convince us that there is nothing 
supernatural. Every phenomenon is the result of an accurate definite cause, and 
the cause is an immutable law or principle, which operates with invariable 
precision, whether the law is put into operation consciously or unconsciously. 


Third, we may say that we are on "forbidden ground," that there are some things 
which we should not know. This objection was used against every advance in 
human knowledge. Every individual who ever advanced a new idea, whether a 
Columbus, a Darwin, a Galileo, a Fulton or an Emerson, was subjected to ridicule 
or persecution; so that this objection should receive no serious consideration; but, 


91 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


on the contrary, we should carefully consider every fact which is brought to our 
attention; by doing this we will more readily ascertain the law upon which it is 


based. 


It will be found that the creative power of thought will explain every possible 
condition or experience, whether physical, mental or spiritual. 

Thought will bring about conditions in correspondence with the predominant 
mental attitude. Therefore, if we fear disaster, as fear is a powerful form of 
thought, disaster will be the certain result of our thinking. It is this form of 
thought which frequently sweeps away the result of many years of toil and effort. 


If we think of some form of material wealth we may secure it. By concentrated 
thought the required conditions will be brought about, and the proper effort put 
forth, which will result in bringing about the circumstances necessary to realize 
our desires; but we often find that when we secure the things we thought we 
wanted, they do not have the effect we expected. That is, the satisfaction is only 
temporary, or possibly is the reverse of what we expected. 


What, then, is the proper method of procedure? What are we to think in order to 
secure what we really desire? What you and I desire, what we all desire, what 
every one is seeking, is Happiness and Harmony. If we can be truly happy we 
shall have everything the world can give. If we are happy ourselves we can make 
others happy. 


But we cannot be happy unless we have, health, strength, congenial friends, 
pleasant environment, sufficient supply, not only to take care of our necessities 
but to provide for those comforts and luxuries to which we are entitled. 


The old orthodox way of thinking was to be "a worm," to be satisfied with our 
portion whatever it is; but the modern idea is to know that we are entitled to the 
best of everything, that the "Father and I are one" and that the "Father" is the 
Universal Mind, the Creator, the Original Substance from which all things 
proceed. 


Now admitting that his is all true in theory, and it has been taught for two 
thousand years, and is the essence of every system of Philosophy or Religion, 
how are we to make it practical in our lives? How are we to get the actual, 
tangible results here and now? 


In the first place, we must put our knowledge into practice. Nothing can be 
accomplished in any other way. The athlete may read books and lessons on 
physical training all his life, but unless he begins to give out strength by actual 
work he will never receive any strength; he will eventually get exactly what he 
gives; but he will have to give it first. It is exactly the same with us; we will get 
exactly what we give, but we shall have to give it first. It will then return to us 
many fold, and the giving is simply a mental process, because thoughts are causes 


22 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


Pade 


and conditions are effects; therefore in giving thoughts of courage, inspiration, 


health or help of any kind we are setting causes in motion which will bring about 
their effect. 


Thought is a spiritual activity and is therefore creative, but make no mistake, 
thought will create nothing unless it is consciously, systematically, and 
constructively directed; and herein is the difference between idle thinking, which 
is simply a dissipation of effort, and constructive thinking, which means 
practically unlimited achievement. 


We have found that everything we get comes to us by the Law of Attraction. A 
happy thought cannot exist in an unhappy consciousness; therefore the 
consciousness must change, and, as the consciousness changes, all conditions 
necessary to meet the changed consciousness must gradually change, in order to 
meet the requirements of the new situation. 


In creating a Mental Image or an Ideal, we are projecting a thought into the 
Universal Substance from which all things are created. This Universal Substance 
is Omnipresent, Omnipotent and Omniscient. Are we to inform the Omniscient as 
to the proper channel to be used to materialize our demand? Can the finite advise 
the Infinite? This is the cause of failure; of every failure. We recognize the 
Omnipresence of the Universal Substance, but we fail to appreciate the fact that 
this substance 1s not only Omnipresent, but is Omnipotent and Omniscient, and 
consequently will set causes in motion concerning which we may be entirely 
ignorant. 


We can best conserve our interests by recognizing the Infinite Power and Infinite 
Wisdom of the Universal Mind, and in this way become a channel whereby the 
Infinite can bring about the realization of our desire. This means that recognition 
brings about realization, therefore for your exercise this week make use of the 
principle, recognize the fact that you are a part of the whole, and that a part must 
be the same in kind and quality as the whole; the only difference there can 
possibly by, is in degree. 


When this tremendous fact begins to permeate your consciousness, when you 
really come into a realization of the fact that you (not your body, but the Ego), the 
"I," the spirit which thinks is an integral part of the great whole, that it is the same 
in substance, in quality, in kind, that the Creator could create nothing different 
from Himself, you will also be able to say, "The Father and | are one" and you 
will come into an understanding of the beauty, the grandeur, the transcendental 
opportunities which have been placed at your disposal. 


"Increase in me that wisdom 
Which discovers my truest interest, 


Strengthen my resolution | 
To perform that which wisdom dictates." - F ranklin 


we) 


PART THIRTEEN Study Questions with Answers 


121. What is the method by which natural philosophers obtain and apply their 
knowledge? To observe individual facts carefully, patiently, accurately, with all the 
instruments and resources at their command, before venturing upon a statement of 
general laws. 

122. How may we be certain that this method is correct? By not permitting a 
tyrannical prejudice to neglect or mutilate unwelcome facts. 

123. What class of facts are esteemed most highly? Those which cannot be accounted 
for by the usual daily observation of life. 

124. Upon what is this principle founded? Upon reason and experience. 

125. What does it destroy? Superstition, precedent and conventionality. 

126. How have these laws been discovered? By a generalization of facts which are 
uncommon, rare, strange and form the exception. 

127. How may we account for much of the strange and heretofore unexplainable 
phenomena which is constantly taking place? By the creative power of thought. 

128. Why is this so? Because when we learn of a fact we can be sure that it is the result 
of a certain definite cause and that this cause will operate with invariable precision. 

129. What is the result of this knowledge? It will explain the cause of every possible 
condition, whether physical, mental or spiritual. 

130. How will our best interest be conserved? By a recognition of the fact that a 
knowledge of the creative nature of thought puts us in touch with Infinite power. 


94 


INTRODUCTION - PART FOURTEEN 


You have found from your study thus far that thought is a spiritual activity and is 
therefore endowed with creative power. This does not mean that some thought is creative, 
but that all thought is creative. This same principle can be brought into operation in a 
negative way, through the process of denial. 

The conscious and subconscious are but two phases of action in connection with one 
mind. The relation of the subconscious to the conscious is quite analogous to that existing 
between a weather vane and the atmosphere. Just as the least pressure of the atmosphere 
causes an action on the part of the weather vane, so does the least thought entertained by 
the conscious mind produce within your subconscious mind action in exact proportion to 
the depth of feeling characterizing the thought and the intensity with which the thought is 
indulged. 

It follows that if you deny unsatisfactory conditions, you are withdrawing the creative 
power of your thought from these conditions. You are cutting them away at the root. You 
are sapping their vitality. 

Remember that the law of growth necessarily governs every manifestation in the 
objective, so that a denial of unsatisfactory conditions will not bring about instant change. 
A plant will remain visible for some time after its roots have been cut, but it will 
gradually fade away and eventually disappear, so the withdrawal of your thought from 
the contemplation of unsatisfactory conditions will gradually, but surely, terminate these 
conditions. 

You will see that this is an exactly opposite course from the one which we would 
naturally be inclined to adopt. It will therefore have an exactly opposite effect to the one 
usually secured. Most persons concentrate intently upon unsatisfactory conditions, 
thereby giving the condition that measure of energy and vitality which is necessary in 
order to supply a vigorous growth. 


95 


PART FOURTEEN 


The Universal Energy in which all motion, light, heat, and color have their origin, 
does not partake of the limitation of the many effects of which it is the cause, but 
it is supreme over them all. This Universal Substance is the source of all Power, 
Wisdom and Intelligence. 


To recognize this Intelligence is to acquaint yourself with the knowing quality of 
Mind and through it to move upon the Universal Substance, and bring it into 
harmonious relations in your affairs. 


This is something that the most learned physical science teacher has not attempted 
-- a field of discovery upon which he has not yet launched; in fact, but few of the 
materialistic schools have ever caught the first ray of this light. It does not seem to 
have dawned upon them that wisdom is just as much present everywhere as are 
force and substance. 


Some will say, if these principles are true, why are we not demonstrating them? 
As the fundamental principle is obviously correct, why do we not get proper 
results? We do. We get results in exact accordance with our understanding of the 
law and our ability to make the proper application. We secured no results from the 
laws governing electricity until someone formulated the law and showed us how 
to apply it. 


This puts us in an entirely new relation to our environment, opening up 
possibilities previously undreamed of, and this by an orderly sequence of law 
which is naturally involved in our new mental attitude. 


Mind is creative and the principle upon which this law is based is sound and 
legitimate 

and is inherent in the nature of things; but this creative power does not originate 
in the individual, but in the Universal, which is the source and fountain of all 
energy and substance, the individual is simply the channel for the distribution of 
this energy. The individual is the means by which the Universal produces the 
various combinations which result in the formation of phenomena. 


We know that scientists have resolved matter into an immense number of 
molecules; these molecules have been resolved into atoms, and the atoms into 
electrons. The discovery of electrons in high vacuum glass tubes containing fused 
terminals of hard metal, indicates conclusively that these electrons fill all space; 
that they exist everywhere, that they are omnipresent. They fill all material bodies 


and occupy the whole of what we call empty space. This, then, is the Universal 
Substance from which all things proceed. 


Electrons would forever remain electrons unless directed where to go to be 
assembled into atoms and molecules, and this director is Mind. A number of 


96 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


5; 


16. 


electrons revolving around a center of force constitutes an atom; atoms unite in 
absolutely regular mathematical ratios and form molecules, and these unite with 
each other to form a multitude of compounds which unite to build the Universe. 
The lightest known atom is hydrogen and this is 1,700 times heavier than an 
electron. An atom of mercury is 300,000 times heavier than an electron. Electrons 
are pure negative electricity, and as they have the same potential velocity as all 
other cosmic energy, such as heat, light, electricity and thought (189,380 miles 
per second), neither time nor space require consideration. The manner in which 
the velocity of light was ascertained is interesting. 


The velocity of light was obtained by the Danish astronomer Roemer in 1676, by 
observing the eclipses of Jupiter's moons. When the earth was nearest to Jupiter, 
the eclipse appeared about eight and one-half minutes too soon for the 
calculations, and when the earth was most remote from Jupiter, they were about 
eight and one-half minutes too late. Roemer concluded the reason to be that it 
required 17 minutes for light from the planet to traverse the diameter of the earth's 
orbit, which measured the difference of the distances of the earth from Jupiter. 
This calculation has since been verified, and proves that light travels about 
186,000 miles a second. 


Electrons manifest in the body as cells, and possess mind and intelligence 
sufficient for them to perform their functions in the human physical anatomy. 
Every part of the body is composed of cells, some of which operate 
independently; others in communities. Some are busy building tissue, while others 
are engaged in forming the various secretions necessary for the body. Some act as 
carriers of material; others are the surgeons whose work it is to repair damage; 
others are scavengers, carrying off waste; others are constantly ready to repel 
invaders or other undesirable intruders of the germ family. 


All these cells are moving for a common purpose and each one is not only a living 
organism, but has sufficient intelligence to enable it to perform its necessary 
duties. It is also endowed with sufficient intelligence to conserve the energies and 
perpetuate its own life. It must, therefore, secure sufficient nourishment and it has 
been found that it exercises choice in the selection of such nourishment. 


Each cell is born, reproduces itself, dies and is absorbed. The maintenance of 
health and life itself depends upon the constant regeneration of these cells. 


It is therefore apparent that there is mind in every atom of the body; this mind is 
negative mind, and the power of the individual to think makes him positive, so 
that he can control this negative mind. This is the scientific explanation for 
metaphysical healing, and will enable anyone to understand the principle upon 
which this remarkable phenomenon rests. 


This negative mind, which is contained in every cell of the body, has been called 
the subconscious mind, because it acts without our conscious knowledge. We 


og 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


Jinks 


have found that this subconscious mind is responsive to the will of the conscious 
mind. 


All things have their origin in mind, and appearances are the result of thought. So 
that we see that things in themselves have no origin, permanency, or reality. Since 
they are produced by thought, they can be erased by thought. 

In mental, as in natural science, experiments are being made and each discovery 
lifts man one step higher toward his possible goal. We find that every man is the 
reflection of the thought he has entertained during his lifetime. This is stamped on 
his face, his form, his character, his environment. 


Back of every effect there is a cause, and if we follow the trail to its starting point, 
we shall find the creative principle out of which it grew. Proofs of this are now so 
complete that this truth is generally accepted. 


The objective world is controlled by an unseen and, heretofore, unexplainable 
power. We have, heretofore, personalized this power and called it God. We have 
now, however, learned to look upon it as the permeating essence or Principle of 
all that exists -- the Infinite or Universal Mind. 


The Universal Mind, being infinite and omnipotent, has unlimited resources at its 
command, and when we remember that it is also omnipresent, we cannot escape 
the conclusion that we must be an expression or manifestation of that Mind. 


A recognition and understanding of the resources of the subconscious mind will 
indicate that the only difference between the subconscious and the Universal is 
one of degree. They differ only as a drop of water differs from the ocean. They 
are the same in kind and quality, the difference is one of degree only. 


Do you, can you, appreciate the value of this all-important fact; do you realize 
that a recognition of this tremendous fact places you in touch with Omnipotence? 
The subconscious mind being the connecting link between the Universal Mind 
and the conscious mind, is it not evident that the conscious mind can consciously 
suggest thoughts which the subconscious mind will put into action, and as the 
subconscious is one with the Universal, is it not evident that no limit can be 
placed upon its activities? 


A scientific understanding of this principle will explain the wonderful results 
which are secured through the power of prayer. The results which are secured in 
this way are not brought about by any special dispensations of providence, but on 
the contrary, they are the result of the operation of a perfectly natural law. There 
is, therefore, nothing either religious or mysterious about it. 


Yet there are many who are not ready to enter into the discipline necessary to 
think correctly, even though it is evident that wrong thinking has brought failure. 


98 


26. Thought is the only reality; conditions are but the outward manifestations; as the 
thought changes, all outward or material conditions must change in order to be in 
harmony with their creator, which is thought. 


27. But the thought must be clear cut, steady, fixed, definite, unchangeable; you 
cannot take one step forward and two steps backward, neither can you spend 
twenty or thirty years of your life building up negative conditions as the result of 
negative thoughts, and then expect to see them all melt away as the result of 
fifteen or twenty minutes of right thinking. 


28. If you enter into the discipline necessary to bring about a radical change in your 
life, you must do so deliberately, after giving the matter careful thought and full 
consideration, and then you must allow nothing to interfere with your decision. 


29. This discipline, this change of thought, this mental attitude will not only bring you 
the material things which are necessary for your highest and best welfare, but will 
bring health and harmonious conditions generally. 


30. If you wish harmonious conditions in your life, you must develop an harmonious 
mental attitude. 


31. Your world without will be a reflection of your world within. 


32. For your exercise this week, concentrate on Harmony, and when I say 
concentrate, I mean all that the word implies; concentrate so deeply, so earnestly, 
that you will be conscious of nothing but harmony. Remember, we learn by doing. 
Reading these lessons will get you nowhere. It 1s in the practical application that 
the value consists. 


"Learn to keep the door shut, keep out of your mind and out of your world, every element 
that seeks admittance with no definite helpful end in view." - George Mathew Adams 


99 


PART FOURTEEN Study Questions with Answers 
131. What is the source of all Wisdom, Power and Intelligence? The Universal Mind. 
132. Where do all motion, light, heat and color have their origin? In the Universal 
Energy, which is one manifestation of the Universal Mind. 
133. Where does the creative power of thought originate? In the Universal Mind. 
134. What is thought? Mind in motion. 
135. How is the Universal differentiated in form? The individual is the means by 
which the Universal produces the various combinations which result in formation of 
phenomena. 
136. How is this accomplished? The power of the individual to think is his ability to act 
upon the Universal and bring it into manifestation. 
137. What is the first form which the Universal takes so far as we know? Electrons, 
which fill all space. 
138. Where do all things have their origin? In mind. 
139. What is the result of a change of thought? A change in conditions. 
140. What is the result of a harmonious mental attitude? Harmonious conditions in 
life. Thought, immaterial though it may be, is the matrix that shapes the issues of life. 


"The mind has been active in all fields during this fruitful century, but it is to science we 
must look for the thoughts that have shaped all thinking." 


100 


INTRODUCTION - PART FIFTEEN 


Experiments with parasites found on plants indicate that even the lowest order of life 
is enabled to take advantage of natural law. This experiment was made by Jacques Loch, 
M.D., Ph. D., a member of the Rockefeller Institute. 

"In order to obtain the material, potted rose bushes are brought into a room and 
placed in front of a closed window. If the plants are allowed to dry out, the aphids 
(parasites), previously wingless, change to winged insects. After the metamorphosis, the 
animals leave the plants, fly to the window and then creep upward on the glass." 

It is evident that these tiny insects found that the plants on which they had been 
thriving were dead, and that they could therefore secure nothing more to eat and drink 
from this source. The only method by which they could save themselves from starvation 
was to grow temporary wings and fly, which they did. 

Experiments such as these indicate that Omniscience as well as Omnipotence is 
omnipresent and that the tiniest living thing can take advantage of it in an emergency. 

Part Fifteen will tell you more about the law under which we live. It will explain that 
these laws operate to our advantage; that all conditions and experiences that come to us 
are for our benefit; that we gain strength in proportion to the effort expended, and that our 
happiness is best attained through a conscious cooperation with natural laws. 


101 


10. 


11. 


PART FIFTEEN 


The laws under which we live are designed solely for our advantage. These laws 
are immutable and we cannot escape from their operation. 


All the great eternal forces act in solemn silence, but it is in our power to place 
ourselves in harmony with them and thus express a life of comparative peace and 


happiness. 


Difficulties, inharmonies, and obstacles, indicate that we are either refusing to 
give out what we no longer need, or refusing to accept what we require. 


Growth is attained through an exchange of the old for the new, of the good for the 
better; it is a conditional or reciprocal action, for each of us is a complete thought 
entity and this completeness makes it possible for us to receive only as we give. 


We cannot obtain what we lack if we tenaciously cling to what we have. We are 
able to consciously control our conditions as we come to sense the purpose of 
what we attract, and are able to extract from each experience only what we 
require for our further growth. Our ability to do this determines the degree of 
harmony or happiness we attain. 


The ability to appropriate what we require for our growth, continually increases as 
we reach higher planes and broader visions, and the greater our abilities to know 
what we require, the more certain we shall be to discern its presence, to attract it 
and to absorb it. Nothing may reach us except what 1s necessary for our growth. 


All conditions and experiences that come to us do so for our benefit. Difficulties 
and obstacles will continue to come until we absorb their wisdom and gather from 
them the essentials of further growth. 


That we reap what we sow is mathematically exact. We gain permanent strength 
exactly to the extent of the effort required to overcome difficulties. 


The inexorable requirements of growth demand that we exert the greatest degree 
of attraction for what is perfectly in accord with us. Our highest happiness will be 
best attained through our understanding of, and conscious cooperation with 
natural laws. 


In order to possess vitality thought must be impregnated with love. Love is a 
product of the emotions. It is therefore essential that the emotions be controlled 
and guided by the intellect and reason. 


It is love which imparts vitality to thought and thus enables it to germinate. The 
law of attraction, or the law of love, for they are one and the same, will bring to it 
the necessary material for its growth and maturity. 


102 


12. 


13. 


14. 


is 


16. 


Be 


18. 


19. 


20. 


The first form which thought will find is language, or words; this determines the 
importance of words; they are the first manifestation of thought -- the vessels in 
which thought is carried. They take hold of the ether and by setting it in motion 

reproduce the thought to others in the form of sound. 


Thought may lead to action of any kind, but whatever the action, it is simply the 
thought attempting to express itself in visible form. It is evident, therefore, that if 
we wish desirable conditions, we can afford to entertain only desirable thoughts. 


This leads to the inevitable conclusion that if we wish to express abundance in our _ 
lives, we can afford to think abundance only, and as words are only thoughts 
taking form, we must be especially careful to use nothing but constructive and 
harmonious language, which when finally crystallized into objective forms, will 
prove to our advantage. 


We cannot escape from the pictures we incessantly photograph on the mind, and 
this photography of erroneous conceptions is exactly what is being done by the 
use of words, when we use any form of language which is not identified with our 
welfare. 


We manifest more and more life as our thought becomes clarified and takes 
higher planes. This is obtained with greater facility as we use word pictures that 
are clearly defined, and relieved of the conceptions attached to them on lower 
planes of thought. 


It is with words that we must express our thoughts, and if we are to make use of 
higher forms of truth, we may use only such material as has been carefully and 
intelligently selected with this purpose in view. 


This wonderful power of clothing thoughts in the form of words is what 
differentiates man from the rest of the animal kingdom; by the use of the written 
word he has been enabled to look back over the centuries and see the stirring 
scenes by which he has come into his present inheritance. 


He has been enabled to come into communion with the greatest writers and 
thinkers of all time, and the combined record which we possess today is therefore 
the expression of Universal Thought as it has been seeking to take form in the 
mind of Man. 


We know that the Universal Thought has for its goal the creation of form, and we 
know that the individual thought is likewise forever attempting to express itself in 
form, and we know that the word is a thought form, and a sentence is a 
combination of thought forms, therefore, if we wish our ideal to be beautiful or 
strong, we must see that the words out of which this temple will eventually be 
created are exact, that they are put together carefully, because accuracy in 


103 


JAY 


22. 


23: 


24. 


25. 


26. 


Ze 


28. 


29, 


building words and sentences is the highest form of architecture in civilization 
and is a passport to success. 


Words are thoughts and are therefore an invisible and invincible power which will 
finally objectify themselves in the form they are given. 

Words may become mental places that will live forever, or they may become 
shacks which the first breeze will carry away. They may delight the eye as well as 
the ear; they may contain all knowledge; in them we find the history of the past as 
well as the hope of the future; they are living messengers from which every 
human and superhuman activity is born. 


The beauty of the word consists in the beauty of the thought; the power of the 
word consists in the power of the thought, and the power of the thought consists 
in its vitality. How shall we identify a vital thought? What are its distinguishing 
characteristics? It must have principle. How shall we identify principle? 


There is a principle of Mathematics, but none of error; there is a principle of 
health, but none of disease; there is a principle of truth, but none of dishonesty; 
there is a principle of light, but none of darkness, and there is a principle of 
abundance, but none of poverty. 


How shall we know that this is true? Because if we apply the principle of 
Mathematics correctly we shall be certain of our results. Where there 1s health 
there will be no disease. If we know the Truth we cannot be deceived by error. If 
we let in light there can be no darkness, and where there is abundance there can 
be no poverty. 


These are self-evident facts, but the all-important truth that a thought containing 
principle is vital and therefore contains life and consequently takes root, and 
eventually but surely and certainly displaces the negative thoughts, which by their 
very nature can contain no vitality, is one which seems to have been overlooked. 


But this is a fact which will enable you to destroy every manner of discord, lack 
and limitation. 


There can be no question but that he who "is wise enough to understand" will 
readily recognize that the creative power of thought places an invincible weapon 
in his hands and makes him a master of destiny. 


In the physical world there is a law of compensation which is that "the appearance 
of a given amount of energy anywhere means the disappearance of the same 
amount somewhere else," and so we find that we can get only what we give; if we 
pledge ourselves to a certain action we must be prepared to assume the 
responsibility for the development of that action. The subconscious cannot reason. 
It takes us at our word; we have asked for something; we are now to receive it; we 


104 


30. 


31. 


32. 


33: 


34 


35. 


36. 


have made our bed, we are now to lie in it; the die has been cast; the threads will 
carry out the pattern we have made. 


For this reason Insight must be exercised so that the thought which we entertain 


contains no mental, moral or physical germ which we do not wish objectified in 
our lives. 


Insight is a faculty of the mind whereby we are enabled to examine facts and 
conditions at long range, a kind of human telescope; it enables us to understand 
the difficulties, as well as the possibilities, in any undertaking. 


Insight enables us to be prepared for the obstacles which we shall meet; we can 
therefore overcome them before they have any opportunity of causing difficulty. 


Insight enables us to plan to advantage and turn our thought and attention in the 
right direction, instead of into channels which can yield no possible return. 


. Insight is therefore absolutely essential for the development of any great 


achievement, but with it we may enter, explore and possess any mental field. 


Insight is a product of the world within and is developed in the Silence, by 
concentration. 


For your exercise this week, concentrate on Insight; take your accustomed 
position and focus the thought on the fact that to have a knowledge of the creative 
power of thought does not mean to possess the art of thinking. Let the thought 
dwell on the fact that knowledge does not apply itself. That our actions are not 
governed by knowledge, but by custom, precedent and habit. That the only way 
we can get ourselves to apply knowledge is by a determined conscious effort. Call 
to mind the fact that knowledge unused passes from the mind, that the value of the 
information is in the application of the principle; continue this line of thought 
until you gain sufficient insight to formulate a definite program for applying this 
principle to your own particular problem. 


"Think truly, and thy thoughts 
Shall the world's famine feed; 
Speak truly, and each word of thine 
Shall be a fruitful seed; 

Live truly, and thy life shall be 

A great and noble creed." 

- Horatio Bonar 


105 


PART FIFTEEN Study Questions with Answers 


141. What determines the degree of harmony which we attain? Our ability to 
appropriate what we require for our growth from each experience. 

142. What do difficulties and obstacles indicate? That they are necessary for our 
wisdom and spiritual growth. 

143. How may these difficulties be avoided? By a conscious understanding of and 
cooperation with Natural laws. 

144. What is the principle by which thought manifests itself in form? The Law of 
Attraction. 

145. How is the necessary material secured by which the growth, development and 
maturity of the idea take form? The law of love, which is the creative principle of the 
Universe, imparts vitality to the thought, and the law of attraction brings the necessary 
substance by the law of growth. 

146. How are desirable conditions secured? By entertaining desirable thoughts only. 
147. How are undesirable conditions brought about? By thinking, discussing and 
visualizing conditions of lack, limitation, disease, inharmony and discord of every kind. 
This mental photography of erroneous conceptions is taken up by the subconscious and 
the law of attraction will inevitable crystallize it into objective form. That we reap what 
we sow is scientifically exact. 

148. How can we overcome every kind of fear, lack. limitation, poverty and discord? 
By substituting principle for error. 

149. How may we recognize principle? By a conscious realization of the fact that Truth 
invariably destroys error. We do not have to laboriously shovel the darkness out; all that 
is necessary 1s to turn on the light. The same principle applies to every form of negative 
thought. 

150. What is the value of Insight? It enables us to understand the value of making 
application of the knowledge which we gain. Many seem to think that knowledge will 
automatically apply itself, which is by no means true. 


"To every man there openeth a way, 
And the high soul climbs the high way, 
And the low soul gropes the low; 

And in between on the misty flats, 

The rest drift to and fro. 

But to every man there openeth 

A high way and a low 

And every man decideth 

The way his soul shall go." 


106 


INTRODUCTION - PART SIXTEEN 


The vibratory activities of the planetary Universe are governed by a law of 
periodicity. Everything that lives has periods of birth, growth, fruitage, and decline. 
These periods are governed by the Septimal Law. 

The Law of Sevens governs the days of the week, the phases of the moon, the 
harmonies of sound, light, heat, electricity, magnetism, atomic structure. It governs the 
life of individuals and of nations, and it dominates the activities of the commercial world. 

Life is growth, and growth is change, each seven years period takes us into a new 
cycle. The first seven years is the period of infancy. The next seven the period of 
childhood, representing the beginning of individual responsibility. The next seven 
represents the period of adolescence. The fourth period marks the attainment of full 
growth. The fifth period is the constructive period, when men begin to acquire property, 
possessions, a home and family. The next from 35 to 42, is a period of reactions and 
changes, and this in turn is followed by a period of reconstruction, adjustment and 
recuperation, so as to be ready for a new cycle of sevens, beginning with the fiftieth year. 

There are many who think that the world is just bout to pass out of the sixth period; 
that it will soon enter into the seventh period, the period of readjustment, reconstruction 
and harmony; the period which is frequently referred to as the Millennium. 

Those familiar with these cycles will not be disturbed when things seem to go wrong, 
but can apply the principle outlined in these lessons with the full assurance that a higher 
law will invariably control all other laws, and that through an understanding and 
conscious operation of spiritual laws, we can convert every seeming difficulty into a 
blessing. 


107 


PART SIXTEEN 


Wealth is a product of labor. Capital is an effect, not a cause; a servant, nota 
master; a means, not an end. 


The most commonly accepted definition of wealth is that it consists of all useful 
and agreeable things which possess exchange value. It is this exchange value 
which is the predominant characteristic of wealth. 


When we consider the small addition made by wealth to the happiness of the 
possessor, we find that the true value consists not in its utility but in its exchange. 


This exchange value makes it a medium for securing the things of real value 
whereby our ideals may be realized. 


Wealth should then never be desired as an end, but simply as a means of 
accomplishing an end. Success is contingent upon a higher ideal than the mere 
accumulation of riches, and he who aspires to such success must formulate an 
ideal for which he is willing to strive. 


With such an ideal in mind, the ways and means can and will be provided, but the 
mistake must not be made of substituting the means for the end. There must be a 
definite fixed purpose, an ideal. 


Prentice Mulford said: "The man of success is the man possessed of the greatest 
spiritual understanding and every great fortune comes of superior and truly 
spiritual power." Unfortunately, there are those who fail to recognize this power; 
they forget that Andrew Carnegie's mother had to help support the family when 
they came to America, that Harriman's father was a poor clergyman with a salary 
of only $200.00 a year, that Sir Thomas Lipton started with only 25 cents. These 
men had no other power to depend upon, but it did not fail them. 


The power to create depends entirely upon spiritual power; there are three steps, 
idealization, visualization and materialization. Every captain of industry depends 
upon this power exclusively. In an article in Everybody's Magazine, Henry M. 
Flagler, the Standard Oil multi-millionaire, admitted that the secret of his success 
was his power to see a thing in its completeness. The following conversation with 


the reporter shows his power of idealization, concentration and visualization, all 
spiritual powers: 


"Did you actually vision to yourself the whole thing? I mean, did you, or could 
you, really close your eyes and see the tracks? And the trains running? and hear 


the whistles blowing: Did you go as far as that?" "Yes." "How clearly?" "Very 
clearly." ; 


108 


10. Here we have a vision of the law, we see "cause and effect", we see that thought 
necessarily precedes and determines action. If we are wise, we shall come into a 
realization of the tremendous fact that no arbitrary condition can exist for a 


moment, and that human experience is the result of an orderly and harmonious 
sequence. 


11. The successful business man is more often than not an idealist and is every 
striving for higher and higher standards. The subtle forces of thought as they 
crystallize in our daily moods is what constitutes life. 


12. Thought is the plastic material with which we build images of our growing 
conception of life. Use determines its existence. As in all other things our ability 
to recognize it and use it properly is the necessary condition for attainment. 


13. Premature wealth is but the forerunner of humiliation and disaster, because we 
cannot permanently retain anything which we do not merit or which we have not 
earned. 


14. The conditions with which we meet in the world without, correspond to the 
conditions which we find in the world within. This is brought about by the law of 
attraction. How then shall we determine what is to enter into the world within? 


15. Whatever enters the mind through the senses or the objective mind will impress 
the mind and result in a mental image which will become a pattern for the creative 
energies. These experiences are largely the result of environment, chance, past 
thinking and other forms of negative thought, and must be subjected to careful 
analysis before being entertained. On the other hand, we can form our own mental 
images, through our own interior processes of thought regardless of the thoughts 
of others, regardless of exterior conditions, regardless of environment of every 
kind, and it is by the exercise of this power that we can control our own destiny, 
body, mind and soul. 


16. It is by the exercise of this power that we take our fate out of the hands of chance, 
and consciously make for ourselves the experiences which we desire, because 
when we consciously realize a condition, that condition will eventually manifest 
in our lives; it is therefore evident that in the last analysis thinking is the one great 


cause in life. 


17. Therefore, to control thought is to control circumstances, conditions, 
environment, and destiny. 


18. How then are we to control thought; what is the process? To think is to create a 
thought, but the result of the thought will depend upon its form, its quality and its 


vitality. 


109 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


ZT; 


28. 


29. 


30. 


The form will depend upon the mental images from which it emanates, this will 
depend upon the depth of the impression, the predominance of the idea, the clarity 
of the vision, the boldness of the image. 


The quality depends upon its substance, and this depends upon the material of 
which the mind is composed; if this material has been woven from thoughts of 
vigor, strength, courage, determination, the thought will possess these qualities. 
And finally, the vitality depends upon the feeling with which the thought 1s 
impregnated. If the thought is constructive, it will possess vitality; it will have 
life, it will grow, develop, expand, it will be creative; it will attract to itself 
everything necessary for its complete development. 


If the thought is destructive, it will have within itself the germ of its own 
dissolution; it will die, but in the process of dying, it will bring sickness, disease, 
and every other form of discord. 


This we call evil, and when we bring it upon ourselves, some of us are disposed to 
attribute our difficulties to a Supreme Being, but this supreme being 1s simply 
Mind in equilibrium. 


It is neither good nor bad, it simply is. 
Our ability to differentiate it into form is our ability to manifest good or evil. 


Good and evil therefore are not entities, they are simply words which we use to 
indicate the result of our actions, and these actions are in turn predetermined by 
the character of our thought. 


If our thought is constructive and harmonious we manifest good; if it is 
destructive and discordant we manifest evil. 


If you desire to visualize a different environment, the process is simply to hold the 
ideal in mind, until your vision has been made real; give no thought to persons, 
places or things; these have no place in the absolute; the environment you desire 
will contain everything necessary; the right persons, and the right things will 
come at the right time and in the right place. 


It is sometimes not plain how character, ability, attainment, achievement, 
environment and destiny can be controlled through the power of visualization, but 
this is an exact scientific fact. 


You will readily see that what we think determines the quality of mind, and that 
the quality of mind in turn determines our ability and mental capacity, and you 
can readily understand that the improvement in our ability will naturally be 
followed by increase in attainment and a greater control of circumstances. 


110 


31. It will thus be seen that Natural laws work in a perfectly natural and harmonious 
manner; everything seems to "just happen." If you want any evidence of this fact 
simply compare results of your efforts in your own life, when your actions were 
prompted by high ideals and when you had selfish or ulterior motives in mind. 
You will need no further evidence.If you wish to bring about the realization of 
any desire, form a mental picture of success in your mind, by consciously 
visualizing your desire; in this way you will be compelling success, you will be 
externalizing it in your life by scientific methods. 


32. We can only see what already exists in the objective world, but what we visualize, 
already exists in the spiritual world, and this visualization is a substantial token of 
what will one day appear in the objective world, if we are faithful to our ideal. 
The reason for this is not difficult; visualization is a form of imagination; this 
process of thinking forms impressions on the mind, and these impressions in turn 
form concepts and ideals, and they in turn are the plans from which the Master 
architect will weave the future. 


33. The psychologists have come to the conclusion that there is but one sense, the 
sense of feeling, and that all other senses are but modifications of this one sense; 
this being true, we know why feeling is the very fountain head of power, why the 
emotions so easily overcome the intellect, and why we must put feeling into our 
thought, if we wish results. Thought and feeling is the irresistible combination. 


34. Visualization must, of course, be directed by the will; we are to visualize exactly 
what we want; we must be careful not to let the imagination run riot. Imagination 
is a good servant but a poor master, and unless it is controlled it may easily lead 
us into all kinds of speculations and conclusions which have no basis or 
foundation of fact whatever. Every kind of plausible opinion ts liable to be 
accepted without any analytical examination and the inevitable result is mental 
chaos. 


35. We must therefore construct only such mental images as are known to be 
scientifically true. Subject every idea to a searching analysis and accept nothing 
which is not scientifically exact. When you do this you will attempt nothing but 
what you know you can carry out and success wiil crown your efforts; this is what 
businessmen call far-sightedness; it is much the same as insight, and is one of the 
great secrets of success in all important undertakings. 


36. For your exercise this week, try to bring yourself to a realization of the important 
fact that harmony and happiness are states of consciousness and do not depend 
upon the possession of things. That things are effects and come as a consequence 
of correct mental states. So that if we desire material possession of any kind our 
chief concern should be to acquire the mental attitude which will bring about the 
result desired. This mental attitude is brought about by a realization of our 
spiritual nature and our unity with the Universal Mind which is the substance of 
all things. This realization will bring about everything which is necessary for our 


bal 


complete enjoyment. This is scientific or correct thinking. When we succeed in 
bringing about this mental attitude it is comparatively easy to realize our desire as 
an already accomplished fact; when we can do this we shall have found the 
"Truth" which makes us "free" from every lack or limitation of any kind. 


"A man might frame and let loose a star, to roll in its orbit, and yet not have done so 
memorable a thing before God as he who lets a golden-orbed thought to roll through the 


generations of time." 
- H. W. Beecher 


Ie 


PART SIXTEEN Study Questions with Answers 


151. Upon what does wealth depend? Upon an understanding of the creative nature of 
thought. 

152. Upon what does its true value consist? Upon its exchange value. 

153. Upon what does success depend? Upon spiritual power. 

154. Upon what does this power depend? Upon use; use determines its existence. 
155. How may we take our fate out of the hands of chance? By consciously realizing 
the conditions which we desire to see manifested in our lives. 

156. What then is the great business of life? Thinking. 

157. Why is this so? Because thought is spiritual and therefore creative. To consciously 
control thought is therefore to control circumstances, conditions, environment and 
destiny. 

158. What is the source of all evil? Destructive thinking. 

159. What is the source of all good? Scientific correct thinking. 

160. What is scientific thinking? A recognition of the creative nature of spiritual energy 
and our ability to control it. 


“The greatest events of an age are its best thoughts. It is the nature of thought to find its 


way into action." 
-Bovee. 


113 


INTRODUCTION - PART SEVENTEEN 


The kind of Deity which a man, consciously or unconsciously, worships, indicates the 
intellectual status of the worshipper. 

Ask the Indian of God, and he will describe to you a powerful chieftain of a glorious 
tribe. Ask the Pagan of God, and he will tell you of a God of fire, a God of water, a god 
of this, that, and the other. 

Ask the Israelite of God, and he will tell you of the God of Moses, who conceived it 
expedient to rule by coercive measures; hence, the Ten Commandments. Or of Joshua, 
who led the Israelites into battle, confiscated property, murdered the prisoners, and laid 
waste to cities. 

The so-called heathen made "graven images" of their Gods, whom they were 
accustomed to worship, but among the most intelligent, at least, these images were but 
the visible fulcrums with which they were enabled to mentally concentrate on the 
qualities which they desired to externalize in their lives. 

We of the twenty-first century worship a God of Love in theory, but in practice we 
make for ourselves "graven images" of "Wealth," "Power," "Fashion," "Custom" and 
"Conventionality." We "fall down" before them and worship them. We concentrate on 
them and they are thereby externalized in our lives. 

The student who masters the contents of Part Seventeen will not mistake the symbols 
for the reality; he will be interested in causes, rather than effects. He will concentrate on 
the realities of life, and will then not be disappointed in the results. 


114 


PART SEVENTEEN 


We are told that Man has "dominion over all things"; this dominion is established 
through Mind. Thought is the activity which controls every principle beneath it. 
The highest principle by reason of its superior essence and qualities necessarily 


determines the circumstances, aspects and relation of everything with which it 
comes 1n contact. 


The vibrations of Mental forces are the finest and consequently the most powerful 
in existence. To those who perceive the nature and transcendency of mental force, 
all physical power sinks into insignificance. 


We are accustomed to look upon the Universe with a lens of five senses, and from 
these experiences our anthropomorphic conceptions originate, but true 
conceptions are only secured by spiritual insight. This insight requires a 
quickening of the vibrations of the Mind, and is only secured when the mind is 
continuously concentrated in a given direction. 


Continuous concentration means an even, unbroken flow of thought and is the 
result of patient, persistent, persevering and well-regulated system. 


Great discoveries are the result of long-continued investigation. The science of 
mathematics requires years of concentrated effort to master it, and the greatest 
science -- that of the Mind -- is revealed only through concentrated effort. 


Concentration is much misunderstood; there seems to be an idea of effort or 
activity associated with it, when just the contrary is necessary. The greatness of an 
actor lies in the fact that he forgets himself in the portrayal of his character, 
becoming so identified with it, that the audience is swayed by the realism of the 
performance. This will give you a good idea of true concentration; you should be 
so interested in your thought, so engrossed in your subject, as to be conscious of 
nothing else. Such concentration leads to intuitive perception and immediate 
insight into the nature of the object concentrated upon. 


All knowledge is the result of concentration of this kind; it is thus that the secrets 
of Heaven and Earth have been wrested; it is thus that the mind becomes a magnet 
and the desire to know draws the knowledge, irresistibly attracts it, makes it your 


own. 


Desire is largely subconscious; conscious desire rarely realizes its object when the 
latter is out of immediate reach. Subconscious desire arouses the latent faculties 
of the mind, and difficult problems seem to solve themselves. 


The subconscious mind may be aroused and brought into action in any direction 


and made to serve us for any purpose, by concentration. The practice of 
concentration requires the control of the physical, mental, and physical being; all 


P15 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13% 


14. 


is 


16. 


is 


modes of consciousness whether physical, mental, or physical, must be under 
control. Spiritual Truth is therefore the controlling factor; it is this which will 
enable you to grow out of limited attainment and reach a point where you will be 
able to translate modes of thought into character and consciousness. 


Concentration does not mean mere thinking of thoughts, but the transmutation of 
these thoughts into practical values; the average person has no conception of the 
meaning of concentration. There is always the cry "to have" but never the cry "to 
be"; they fail to understand that they cannot have one without the other, that they 
must first find the "kingdom" before they can have the "things added." 
Momentary enthusiasm is of no value; it is only with unbounded self-confidence 
that the goal is reached. 


The mind may place the ideal a little too high and fall short of the mark; it may 
attempt to soar on untrained wings and instead of flying, fall to earth; but that is 
no reason for not making another attempt. 


Weakness is the only barrier to mental attainment; attribute your weakness to 
physical limitations or mental uncertainties and try again; ease and perfection are 
gained by repetition. 


The astronomer centers his mind on the stars and they give forth their secrets; the 
geologists centers his mind on the construction of the earth and we have geology; 
so with all things. Men center their minds on the problems of life, and the result is 
apparent in the vast and complex social order of the day. 


All mental discovery and attainment are the result of desire plus concentration; 
desire is the strongest mode of action; the more persistent the desire, the more 
authoritative the revelation. Desire added to concentration will wrench any secret 
from nature. 


In realizing great thoughts, in experiencing great emotions that correspond with 
great thoughts, the mind is in a state where it appreciates the value of higher 
things. 


The intensity of one moment's earnest concentration and the intense longing to 
become and to attain may take you further than years of slow normal and forced 
effort; it will unfasten the prison bars of unbelief, weakness, impotence and self- 
belittlement, and you will come into a realization of the joy of overcoming. 


The spirit of initiative and originality is developed through persistence and 
continuity of mental effort. Business teaches the value of concentration and 
encourages decision of character; it develops practical insight and quickness of 
conclusion. The mental element in every commercial pursuit is dominant as the 


controlling factor, and desire is the predominating force; all commercial relations 
are the externalization of desire. 


116 


18. Many of the sturdy and substantial virtues are developed in commercial 
employment; the mind is steadied and directed; it becomes efficient. The principal 
necessity is the strengthening of the mind so that it rises superior to the 
distractions and wayward impulses of instinctive life and thus successfully 
overcomes in the conflict between the higher and lower self. 


19. All of us are dynamos, but the dynamo of itself is nothing; the mind must work 
the dynamo; then it is useful and its energy can be definitely concentrated. The 
mind is an engine whose power is undreamed; thought is an omni-working power. 
It is the ruler and creator of all form and all events occurring in form. Physical 
energy is nothing in comparison with the omnipotence of thought, because 
thought enables man to harness all other natural power. 


20. Vibration is the action of thought; it is vibration which reaches out and attracts the 
material necessary to construct and build. There is nothing mysterious concerning 
the power of thought; concentration simply implies that consciousness can be 
focalized to the point where it becomes identified with the object of its attention. 
As food absorbed is the essence of the body, so the mind absorbs the object of its 
attention, gives it life and being. 


21. If you concentrate on some matter of importance, the intuitive power will be set in 
operation, and help will come in the nature of information which will lead to 
success. 


22. Intuition arrives at conclusions without the aid of experience or memory. Intuition 
often solves problems that are beyond the grasp of the reasoning power. Intuition 
often comes with a suddenness that is startling; it reveals the truth for which we 
are searching, so directly that it seems to come from a higher power. Intuition can 
be cultivated and developed; in order to do this it must be recognized and 
appreciated; if the intuitive visitor is given a royal welcome when he comes, he 
will come again; the more cordial the welcome the more frequent his visits will 
become, but if he is ignored or neglected he will make his visits few and far apart. 


23. Intuition usually comes in the Silence; great minds seek solitude frequently; it is 
here that all the larger problems of life are worked out. For this reason every 
businessman who can afford it has a private office, where he will not be 
disturbed; if you cannot afford a private office you can at least find somewhere, 
where you can be alone a few minutes each day, to train the thought along lines 
which will enable you to develop that invincible power which is necessary to 


achieve. 


24. Remember that fundamentally the subconscious is omnipotent; there is no limit to 
the things that can be done when it is given the power to act. Your degree of 
success is determined by the nature of your desire. If the nature of your desire is 


1d 


2S: 


26. 


Ze 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


32. 


335i 


in harmony with Natural Law or the Universal Mind, it will gradually emancipate 
the mind and give you invincible courage. 


Every obstacle conquered, every victory gained, will give you more faith in your 
power, and you will have greater ability to win. Your strength is determined by 
your mental attitude; if this attitude is one of success, and is permanently held 
with an unswerving purpose, you will attract to you from the invisible domain the 
things you silently demand.By keeping the thought in mind, it will gradually take 
tangible form. A definite purpose sets causes in motion which go out in the 
invisible world and find the material necessary to serve your purpose. 


You may be pursuing the symbols of power, instead of power itself. You may be 
pursuing fame instead of honor, riches instead of wealth, position instead of 
servitude; in either event you will find that they turn to ashes just as you overtake 
them. 


Premature wealth or position cannot be retained because it has not been earned; 
we get only what we give, and those who try to get without giving always find 
that the law of compensation is relentlessly bringing about an exact equilibrium. 


The race has usually been for money and other mere symbols of power, but with 
an understanding of the true source of power, we can afford to ignore the 
symbols. The man with a large bank account finds it unnecessary to load his 
pockets down with gold; so with the man who has found the true source of power; 
he is no longer interested in its shams or pretentions. 


Thought ordinarily leads outwardly in evolutionary directions, but it can be turned 
within where it will take hold of the basic principles of things, the heart of things, 
the spirit of things. When you get to the heart of things it is comparatively easy to 
understand and command them. 


This is because the Spirit of a thing is the thing itself, the vital part of it, the real 
substance. The form is simply the outward manifestation of the spiritual activity 
within. 


For your exercise this week concentrate as nearly as possible in accordance with 
the method outlined in this lesson; let there be no conscious effort or activity 
associated with your purpose. Relax completely, avoid any thought of anxiety as 
to results. Remember that power comes through repose. Let the thought dwell 


upon your object, until it is completely identified with it, until you are conscious 
of nothing else. 


If you wish to eliminate fear, concentrate on courage. 


If you wish to eliminate lack, concentrate on abundance. 


118 


34. If you wish to eliminate disease, concentrate on health. 


35. Always concentrate on the ideal as an already existing fact; this is the germ cell 
the life principle which goes forth and sets in motion those causes which guide, 
direct and bring about the necessary relation, which eventually manifest in form. 


’ 


"Thought is the property of those only who can entertain it.” - Emerson 


149 


PART SEVENTEEN Study Questions with Answers 


161. What is the true method of concentration? To become so identified wit the object 
of your thought that you are conscious of nothing else. 

162. What is the result of this method of concentration? Invisible forces are set in 
motion which irresistibly bring about conditions in correspondence with your thought. 
163. What is the controlling factor in this method of thought? Spiritual Truth. 

164. Why is this so? Because the nature of our desire must be in harmony with Natural 
Law. 

165. What is the practical value of this method of concentration? Thought is 
transmuted into character, and character is the magnet which creates the environment of 
the individual. 

166. What is the controlling factor in every commercial pursuit? The mental element. 
167. Why is this so? Because Mind is the ruler and creator of all form and all events 
occurring in form. 

168. How does concentration operate? By the development of the powers of 
perception, wisdom, intuition, and sagacity. 

169. Why is intuition superior to reason? Because it does not depend upon experience 
or memory and frequently brings about the solution to our problems by methods 
concerning which we are in entire ignorance. 

170. What is the result of pursuing the symbol of the reality? They frequently turn to 
ashes just as we overtake them, because the symbol is only the outward form of the 
spiritual activity within, therefore unless we can possess the spiritual reality, the form 
disappears. 


120 


INTRODUCTION - PART EIGHTEEN 


In order to grow we must obtain what is necessary for our growth. This is brought 
about through the law of attraction. This principle is the sole means by which the 
individual is differentiated from the Universal. 

Think for a moment, what would a man be if he were not a husband, father, or 
brother, if he were not interested in the social, economical, political or religious world. 
He would be nothing but an abstract theoretical ego. He exists, therefore, only in his 
relation to the whole, in his relation to other men, in his relation to society. This relation 
constitutes his environment and in no other way. 

It is evident, therefore, that the individual is simply the differentiation of the one 
Universal Mind "which lighteth every man that cometh into the world," and his so-called 
individuality or personality consists of nothing but the manner in which he relates with 
the whole. 

This we call his environment and is brought about by the law of attraction. Part 
Eighteen, which follows, has something more to say concerning this important law. 


121 


PART EIGHTEEN 


There is a change in the thought of the world. This change is silently transpiring 
in our midst, and is more important than any which the world has undergone since 


the downfall of Paganism. 


These present revolution in the opinions of all classes of men, the highest and 
most cultured of men as well as those of the laboring class, stands unparalleled in 
the history of the world. 


Science has of late made such vast discoveries, has revealed such an infinity of 
resources, has unveiled such enormous possibilities and such unsuspected forces, 
that scientific men more and more hesitate to affirm certain theories as established 
and beyond doubt or to deny other theories as absurd or impossible. 


A new civilization is being born; customs, creeds, and precedent are passing; 
vision, faith and service are taking their place. The fetters of tradition are being 
melted off from humanity, and as the impurities of materialism are being 
consumed, thought is being liberated and truth is rising full robed before an 
astonished multitude. 


The whole world is on the eve of a new consciousness, a new power, and a new 
realization within the self. 


Physical Science has resolved matter into molecules, molecules into atoms, atoms 
into energy, and it has remained for Mr. J. A. Fleming, in an address before the 
Royal Institution, to resolve this energy into mind. He says, "In its ultimate 
essence, energy may be incomprehensible by us except as an exhibition of the 
direct operation of that which we call Mind or Will." 


And this mind is the indwelling and ultimate. It is imminent in matter as in spirit. 
It is the sustaining, energizing, all pervading Spirit of the universe. 


Every living thing must be sustained by this omnipotent Intelligence, and we find 
the difference in individual lives to be largely measured by the degree of this 
intelligence, which they manifest. It is greater intelligence that places the animal 
in a higher scale of being than the plant, the man higher than the animal, and we 
find that this increased intelligence is again indicated by the power of the 


individual to control modes of action and thus to consciously adjust himself to his 
environment. 


It is this adjustment that occupies the attention of the greatest minds, and this 
adjustment consists in nothing else than the recognition of an existing order in the 
universal mind, for it is well known that this mind will obey us precisely in 
proportion as we first obey it. 


122 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


Vis 


18. 


It is the recognition of Natural Laws that has enabled us to annihilate time and 
space, to soar in the air and to make iron float, and the greater the degree of 
intelligence the greater will be our recognition of these Natural Laws and the 
greater will be the power we can possess. 


It is the recognition of the self as an individualization of this Universal 
Intelligence that enables the individual to control those forms of intelligence 
which have not yet reached this level of self-recognition; they do not know that 
this Universal Intelligence permeates all things ready to be called into action; they 
do not know that it is responsive to every demand, and they are therefore in 
bondage to the law of their own being. 


Thought is creative and the principle on which the law is based is sound and 
legitimate and is inherent in the nature of things; but this creative power does not 
originate in the individual, but in the universal, which is the source and 
foundation of all energy and substance; the individual is simply the channel for 
the distribution of this energy. 


The individual is simply the means by which the universal produces the various 
combinations which result in the formation of phenomena, which depends upon 
the law of vibration, whereby various rates of rapidity of motion in the primary 
substance form new substances only in certain exact numerical ratios. 


Thought is the invisible link by which the individual comes into communication 
with the Universal, the finite with the Infinite, the seen with the Unseen. Thought 
is the magic by which the human is transformed into a being who thinks and 
knows and feels and acts. 


As the proper apparatus has enabled the eye to discover worlds without number 
millions of miles away, so, with the proper understanding, man has been enabled 
to communicate with the Universal Mind, the source of all power. 


The Understanding which is usually developed is about as valuable as a VCR 
without a videotape; in fact, it is usually nothing more than a "belief", which 
means nothing at all. The savages of the Cannibal Islands believe something; but 
that proves nothing. 


The only belief which is of any value to anyone is a belief that has been put to a 
test and demonstrated to be a fact; it is then no longer a belief, but has become a 


living Faith or Truth. 


And this Truth has been put to the test by hundreds of thousands of people and 
has been found to be the Truth exactly in proportion to the usefulness of the 


apparatus which they used. 


123 


19: 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29; 


A man would not expect to locate stars hundreds of millions of miles away 
without a sufficiently strong telescope, and for this reason Science is continually 
engaged in building larger and more powerful telescopes and is continually 
rewarded by additional knowledge of the heavenly bodies. 

So with understanding; men are continually making progress in the methods 
which they use to come into communication with the Universal Mind and its 
infinite possibilities. 


The Universal Mind manifests itself in the objective, through the principle of 
attraction that each atom has for every other atom, in infinite degrees of intensity. 


It is by this principle of combining and attracting that things are brought together. 
This principle is of universal application and is the sole means whereby the 
purpose of existence is carried into effect. 


The expression of growth is met in a most beautiful manner through the 
instrumentality of this Universal Principle. 


In order to grow we must obtain what is essential for our growth, but as we are at 
all times a complete thought entity, this completeness makes it possible for us to 
receive only as we give; growth is therefore conditioned on reciprocal action, and 
we find that on the mental plane like attracts like, that mental vibrations respond 
only to the extent of their vibratory harmony. 


It is clear, therefore, that thoughts of abundance will respond only to similar 
thoughts; the wealth of the individual is seen to be what he inherently is. 
Affluence within is found to be the secret of attraction for affluence without. The 
ability to produce is found to be the real source of wealth of the individual. It is 
for this reason that he who has his heart 1n his work is certain to meet with 
unbounded success. He will give and continually give; and the more he gives, the 
more he will receive. 


What do the great financiers of Wall Street, the captains of industry, the 
statesmen, the great corporation attorneys, the inventors, the physicians, the 
authors -- what do each of these contribute to the sum of human happiness but the 
power of their thought? 

Thought is the energy which the law of attraction is brought into operation, which 
eventually manifests in abundance. 


The Universal Mind is static Mind or Substance in equilibrium. It is differentiated 
into form by our power to think. Thought is the dynamic phase of mind. 


Power depends upon consciousness of power; unless we use it, we shall lose it, 
and unless we are conscious of it, we cannot use it. 


124 


30. The use of this power depends upon attention; the degree of attention determines 
our capacity for the acquirement of knowledge which is another name for power. 


31. Attention has been held to be the distinguishing mark of genius. The cultivation of 
attention depends upon practice. 


32. The incentive of attention is interest; the greater the interest, the greater the 
attention; the greater the attention, the greater the interest, action and reaction; 
begin by paying attention; before long you will have aroused interest; this interest 
will attract more attention, and this attention will produce more interest, and so 
on. This practice will enable you to cultivate the power of attention. 


33. This week concentrate upon your power to create; seek insight, perception; try to 
find a logical basis for the faith which is in you. Let the thought dwell on the fact 
that the physical man lives and moves and has his being in the sustainer of all 
organic life air, that he must breathe to live. Then let the thought rest on the fact 
that the spiritual man also lives and moves and has his being in a similar but 
subtler energy upon which he must depend for life, and that as in the physical 
world no life assumes form until after a seed is sown, and no higher fruit than that 
of the parent stock can be produced; so in the spiritual world no effect can be 
produced until the seed is sown and the fruit will depend upon the nature of the 
seed, so that the results which you secure depend upon your perception of law in 
the mighty domain of causation, the highest evolution of human consciousness. 


"There is no thought in my mind but it quickly tends to convert itself into a power and 
organizes a huge instrumentality of means." - Emerson 


125 


PART EIGHTEEN Study Questions with Answers 


171. How is the difference in individual lives measured? By the degree of intelligence 
which they manifest. 

172. What is the law by which the individual may control other forms of 
intelligence? A recognition of the self as an individualization of the Universal 
Intelligence. 

173. Where does the creative power originate? In the Universal. 

174. How does the Universal create form? By means of the individual. 

175. What is the connecting link between the individual and the Universal? Thought. 
176. What is the principle by which the means of existence is carried into effect? The 
Law of Love. 

177. How is this principle brought into expression? By the law of growth. 

178. Upon what condition does the law of growth depend? Upon reciprocal action. 
The individual is complete at all times and this makes it possible to receive only as we 
give. 

179. What is it that we give? Thought. 

180. What do we receive? Thought, which 1s substance in equilibrium and which is 
constantly being differentiated in form by what we think. 


126 


INTRODUCTION - PART NINETEEN 


Fear is a powerful form of thought. It paralyzes the nerve centers, thus affecting the 
circulation of the blood. This, in turn, paralyzes the muscular system, so that fear affects 
the entire being, body, brain and nerve, physical, mental, and muscular. 

Of course the way to overcome fear is to become conscious of power. What is this 
mysterious vital force which we call power? We do not know, but then, neither do we 
know what electricity is. But we do know that by conforming to the requirements of the 
law by which electricity is governed, it will be our obedient servant; that it will light our 
homes, our cities, run our machinery, and serve us in many useful capacities. 

And so it is with vital force. Although we do not know what it is, and possibly may 
never know, we do know that it is a primary force which manifests through living bodies, 
and that by complying with the laws and principles by which it is governed, we can open 
ourselves to a more abundant inflow of this vital energy, and thus express the highest 
possible degree of mental, moral, and spiritual efficiency. 

This part tells of a very simply way of developing this vital force. If you put into 
practice the information outlined in this lesson you will soon develop the sense of power 
which has ever been the distinguishing mark of genius. 


Lf 


10. 


PART NINETEEN 


The search for truth is no longer a haphazard adventure, but it is a systematic 
process, and is logical in its operation. Every kind of experience is given a voice 
in shaping its decision. 


In seeking the truth we are seeking ultimate cause; we know that every human 
experience is an effect; then if we may ascertain the cause, and if we shall find 
that this cause is one which we can consciously control, the effect or the 
experience will be within our control also. 


Human experience will then no longer be the football of fate; a man will not be 
the child of fortune, but destiny. Fate and fortune will be controlled as readily as a 
captain controls his ship, or an engineer his train. 


All things are finally resolvable into the same element and as they are thus 
translatable, one into the other, they must ever be in relation and may never be in 
opposition to one another. 


In the physical world there are innumerable contrasts, and these may for 
convenience sake, be designated by distinctive names. There are sizes, colors, 
shades or ends to all things. There is a North Pole, and a South Pole, an inside and 
an outside, a seen and an unseen, but these expressions merely serve to place 
extremes in contrast. 


They are names given to two different parts of one quantity. The two extremes are 
relative; they are not separate entities, but are two parts or aspects of the whole. 


In the mental world we find the same law; we speak of knowledge and ignorance, 
but ignorance 1s but a lack of knowledge and is therefore found to be simply a 
word to express the absence of knowledge; it has no principle in itself. 


In the Moral World we again find the same law; we speak of good and evil, but 
Good is a reality, something tangible, while Evil is found to be simply a negative 
condition, the absence of Good. Evil is sometimes thought to be a very real 
condition, but it has no principle, no vitality, no life; we know this because it can 
always be destroyed by Good; just as Truth destroys Error and light destroys 
darkness, so Evil vanishes when Good appears; there is therefore but one 
principle in the Moral World. 


We find exactly the same law obtaining in the Spiritual world; we speak of Mind 
and Matter as two separate entities, but clearer insight makes it evident that there 
is but one operative principle and that is Mind. 


Mind 1s the real and the eternal. Matter is forever changing; we know that in the 
eons of time a hundred years is but as a day. If we stand in any large city and let 


128 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


Eas 


the eye rest on the innumerable large and magnificent buildings, the vast array of 
modern automobiles, cellular telephones, the electric lights, and all the other 
conveniences of modern civilization, we may remember that not one of them was 
there just over a century ago, and if we could stand on the same spot in a hundred 
years from now, in all probability we should find that but few of them remained. 


In the animal kingdom we find the same law of change. The millions and millions 
of animals come and go, a few years constituting their span of life. In the plant 
world the change is still more rapid. Many plants and nearly all grasses come and 
go in a single year. When we pass to the inorganic, we expect to find something 
more substantial, but as we gaze on the apparently solid continent, we are told that 
it arose from the ocean; we see the giant mountain and are told that the place 
where it now stands was once a lake; and as we stand in awe before the great 
cliffs in the Yosemite Valley we can easily trace the path of the glaciers which 
carried all before them. 


We are in the presence of continual change, and we know that this change is but 
the evolution of the Universal Mind, the grand process whereby all things are 
continually being created anew, and we come to know that matter is but a form 
which Mind takes and is therefore simply a condition. Matter has no principle; 
Mind is the only principle. 


We have then come to know that Mind 1s the only principle which is operative in 
the physical, mental, moral and spiritual world. 


We also know that this mind is static, mind at rest, we also know that the ability 
of the individual to think is his ability to act upon the Universal Mind and convert 
it into dynamic mind, or mind in motion. 


In order to do this fuel must be applied in the form of food, for man cannot think 
without eating, and so we find that even a spiritual activity such as thinking 
cannot be converted into sources of pleasure and profit except by making use of 
material means. 


It requires energy of some kind to collect electricity and convert it into a dynamic 
power, it requires the rays of the sun to give the necessary energy to sustain plant 
life, so it also requires energy in the form of food to enable the individual to think 
and thereby act upon the Universal Mind. 


You may know that thought constantly, eternally is taking form, is forever 
seeking expression, or you may not, but the fact remains that if your thought iS 
powerful, constructive, and positive, this will be plainly evident in the state of 
your health, your business and your environment; if your thought is weak, critical, 
destructive and negative generally, it will manifest in your body as fear, worry 
and nervousness, in your finance as lack and limitation, and in discordant 
conditions in your environment. 


J) 


18. All wealth is the offspring of power; possessions are of value only as they confer 
power. Events are significant only as they affect power, all things represent 
certain forms and degrees of power. 


19. A knowledge of cause and effect as shown by the laws governing steam, 
electricity, chemical affinity and gravitation enables men to plan courageously 
and to execute fearlessly. These laws are called Natural Laws, because they 
govern the physical world, but all power is not physical power; there is also 
mental power, and there is moral and spiritual power. 


20. What are our schools, our universities, but mental powerhouses, places where 
mental power is being developed? 


21. As there are many mighty powerhouses for the application of power to ponderous 
machinery, whereby raw material is collected and converted into the necessities 
and comforts of life, so the mental powerhouses collect the raw material and 
cultivate and develop it into a power which is infinitely superior to all the forces 
of nature, marvelous though they may be. 


22. What is this raw material which is being collected in these thousands of mental 
powerhouses all over the world and developed into a power which is evidently 
controlling every other power? In its static form it is Mind - in its dynamic form, 
it is Thought. 


23. This power is superior because it exists on a higher plane, because it has enabled 
man to discover the law by which these wonderful forces of Nature could be 
harnessed and made to do the work of hundreds and thousands of men. It has 
enabled man to discover laws whereby time and space have been annihilated, and 
the law of gravitation overcome. 


24. Thought is the vital force or energy which is being developed and which has 
produced such startling results in the last half century as to bring about a world 
which would be absolutely inconceivable to a man existing only 50 or 25 years 
ago. If such results have been secured by organizing these mental powerhouses in 
50 years, what may not be expected in another 50 years? 


25 


The substance from which all things are created is infinite in quantity; we know 
that light travels at the rate of 186,000 miles per second, and we know that there 
are Stars so remote that it takes light 2,000 years to reach us, and we know that 
such starts exist in all parts of the heaven; we know, too, that this light comes in 
waves, so that if the ether on which these waves travel was not continuous the 
light would fail to reach us; we can then only come to the conclusion that this 
substance, or ether, or raw material, is universally present. 


26. How, then, does it manifest in form? In electrical science a battery is formed by 
connecting the opposite poles of zinc and copper, which causes a current to flow 
from one to the other and so provides energy. This same process is repeated in 
respect to every polarity, and as all form simply depends upon the rate of 
vibration and consequent relations of atoms to each other, if we wish to change 


the form of manifestation we must change the polarity. This is the principle of 
causation. 


27. For your exercise this week, concentrate, and when I use the word concentrate, I 
mean all that the word implies; become so absorbed in the object of your thought 
that you are conscious of nothing else, and do this a few minutes every day. You 
take the necessary time to eat in order that the body may be nourished, why not 
take the time to assimilate your mental food? 


28. Let the thought rest on the fact that appearances are deceptive. The earth is not 
flat, neither is it stationary; the sky is not a dome, the sun does not move, the stars 
are not small specks of light, and matter which was once supposed to be fixed has 
been found to be in a state of perpetual flux. 


29. Try to realize that the day is fast approaching -- its dawn is now at hand -- when 
modes of thought and action must be adjusted to rapidly increasing knowledge of 


the operation of eternal principles. 


"Silent thought, is, after all, the mightiest agent in human affairs." - Channing 


131 


PART NINETEEN Study Questions with Answers 


181. How are extremes placed in contrast? They are designated by distinctive names, 
such as inside and outside, top and bottom, light and dark, good and bad. 

182. Are these separate entities? No, they are parts or aspects of one Whole. 

183. What is the one creative Principle in the physical, mental and spiritual world? 
The Universal Mind, or the Eternal Energy from which all things proceed. 

184. How are we related to this creative Principle? By our ability to think. 

185. How does this creative Principle become operative? Thought is the seed, which 
results in action and action results in form. 

186. Upon what does form depend? Upon the rate of vibration. 

187. How may the rate of vibration be changed? By mental action. 

188. Upon what does mental action depend? Upon polarity, action and reaction, 
between the individual and the Universal. 

189. Does the creative energy originate in the individual or the Universal? In the 
Universal, but the Universal can manifest only through the individual. 

190. Why is the individual necessary? Because the Universal is static, and requires 
energy to start it in motion. This is furnished by food which is converted into energy, 
which in turn enables the individual to think. When the individual stops eating he stops 
thinking; then he no longer acts upon the Universal; there is consequently no longer any 
action or reaction; the Universal is then only pure mind in static form -- mind at rest. 


132 


INTRODUCTION - PART TWENTY 


For many years there has been an endless discussion as to the origin of evil. 
Theologians have told us that God is Love, and that God is Omnipresent. [f this be true, 
there is no place where God is not. Where, then, is Evil, Satan and Hell? Let us see: 

God is Spirit. 

Spirit is the Creative Principle of the Universe. 

Man is made in the image and likeness of God. 

Man is therefore a spiritual being. 

The only activity which spirit possesses is the power to think. 

Thinking is therefore a creative process. 

All form is therefore the result of the thinking process. 

The destruction of form must also be a result of the thinking process. 

Fictitious representations of form are the result of the creative power of thought, as in 
Hypnotism. 

Apparent representation of form are the result of the creative power of thought, as in 
Spiritualism. 

Invention, organization and constructive work of all kinds are the result of the 
creative power of thought, as in concentration. 

When the creative power of thought is manifested for the benefit of humanity, we call 
the result good. 

When the creative power of thought is manifested in a destructive or evil manner, we 
call the result evil. 

This indicates the origin of booth good and evil; they are simply words which have 
been coined in order to indicate the nature of the result of the thinking or creative 
process. 

Thought necessarily precedes and predetermines action; action precedes and 
predetermines condition. 

Part Twenty will throw more light upon this important subject. 


133 


PART TWENTY 


The spirit of a thing is that thing; it is necessarily fixed, changeless and eternal. 
The spirit of you is -- you; without the spirit you would be nothing. It becomes 
active through your recognition of it and its possibilities. 


You may have all the wealth in Christendom, but unless you recognize it and 
make use of it, it will have no value; so with your spiritual wealth: unless you 
recognize it and use it, it will have no value. The one and only condition of 
spiritual power is use or recognition. 


All great things come through recognition; the scepter of power is consciousness, 
and thought is its messenger, and this messenger is constantly molding the 
realities of the invisible world into the conditions and environments of your 
objective world. 


Thinking is the true business of life, power is the result. You are at all times 
dealing with the magical power of thought and consciousness. What results can 
you expect so long as you remain oblivious to the power which has been placed 
within your control? 


So long as you do this you limit yourself to superficial conditions, and make of 
yourself a beast of burden for those who think; those who recognize their power; 
those who know that unless we are willing to think we shall have to work, and the 
less we think the more we shall have to work, and the less we shall get for our 
work. 


The secret of power is a perfect understanding of the principles, forces, methods 
and combinations of Mind, and a perfect understanding of our relationship to the 
Universal Mind. It is well to remember that this principle is unchangeable; if this 
were not so, it would not be reliable; all principles are changeless. 


This stability is your opportunity; you are its active attribute, the channel for its 
activity; the Universal can act only through the individual. 


When you begin to perceive that the essence of the Universal is within yourself -- 
is you -- you begin to do things; you begin to feel your power; it is the fuel which 
fires the imagination; which lights the torch of inspiration; which gives vitality to 
thought; which enables you to connect with all the invisible forces of the 


Universe. It is this power which will enable you to plan fearlessly, to execute 
masterfully. 


But perception will come only in the Silence; this seems to be the condition 


required for all great purposes. You are a visualizing entity. Imagination is your 
workshop. It is here that your ideal is to be visualized. 


134 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


As a perfect understanding of the nature of this power is a primary condition for 
its manifestation, visualize the entire method over and over again, so that you may 
use it whenever occasion requires. The infinity of wisdom is to follow the method 
whereby we may have the inspiration of the omnipotent Universal Mind on 
demand at any time. 


We can fail to recognize this world within, and so exclude it from our 
consciousness, but it will still be the basic fact of all existence; and when we learn 
to recognize it, not only in ourselves, but in all persons, events, things and 
circumstances we shall have found the "Kingdom of heaven" which we are told is 
"within" us. 


Our failures are a result of the operation of exactly the same principle; the 
principle is unchangeable; its operation is exact, there is no deviation; if we think 
lack, limitation, discord, we shall find their fruits on every hand; if we think 
poverty, unhappiness or disease, the thought messengers will carry the summons 
as readily as any other kind of thought and the result will be just as certain. If we 
fear a coming calamity, we shall be able to say with Job, "the thing I feared has 
come upon me"; if we think unkindly or ignorantly we shall thus attract to 
ourselves the results of our ignorance. 


This power of thought, if understood and correctly used, is the greatest labor- 
saving device ever dreamed of, but if not understood or improperly used, the 
result will in all probability be disastrous, as we have already seen; by the help of 
this power you can confidently undertake things that are seemingly impossible, 
because this power 1s the secret of all inspiration, all genius. 


To become inspired means to get out of the beaten path, out of the rut, because 
extraordinary results require extraordinary means. When we come into a 
recognition of the Unity of all things and that the source of all power is within, we 
tap the source of inspiration. 


Inspiration is the art of imbibing, the art of self-realization; the art of adjusting the 
individual mind to that of the Universal Mind; the art of attaching the proper 
mechanism to the source of all power; the art of differentiating the formless into 
form; the art of becoming a channel for the flow of Infinite Wisdom; the art of 
visualizing perfection; the art of realizing the omnipresence of Omnipotence. 


An understanding and appreciation of the fact that the infinite power is 
omnipresent and is therefore in the infinitely small as well as the infinitely large 
will enable us to absorb its essence; a further understanding of the fact that this 
power is spirit and therefore indivisible will enable us to appreciate its present at 
all points at the same time. 


An understanding of these facts, first intellectually and then emotionally, will 
enable us to drink deeply from this ocean of infinite power. An intellectual 


135 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23: 


24. 


25. 


understanding will be of no assistance; the emotions must be brought into action; 
thought without feeling is cold. The required combination is thought and feeling. 


Inspiration is from within. The Silence is necessary, the senses must be stilled, the 
muscles relaxed, repose cultivated. When you have thus come into possession of a 
sense of poise and power you will be ready to receive the information or 
inspiration or wisdom which may be necessary for the development of your 


purpose. 


Do not confuse these methods with those of the clairvoyant; they have nothing in 
common. Inspiration is the art of receiving and makes for all that is best in life; 
your business in life is to understand and command these invisible forces instead 
of letting them command and rule you. Power implies service; inspiration implies 
power; to understand and apply the method of inspiration is to become a 
superman. 


We can live more abundantly every time we breathe, if we consciously breathe 
with that intention. The IF is a very important condition in this case, as the 
intention governs the attention, and without the attention you can secure only the 
results which every one else secures. That is, a supply equal to the demand. 


In order to secure the larger supply your demand must be increased, and as you 
consciously increase the demand the supply will follow, you will find yourself 
coming into a larger and larger supply of life, energy and vitality. 


The reason for this is not difficult to understand, but it is another of the vital 
mysteries of life which does not seem to be generally appreciated. If you make it 
your own, you will find it one of the great realities of life. 


We are told that "In Him we live and move and have our being," and we are told 
that "He" is a Spirit, and again that "He" is Love, so that every time we breathe, 
we breathe this life, love, and spirit. This is Pranic Energy, or Pranic Ether, we 
could not exist a moment without it. It is the Cosmic Energy; it is the Life of the 
Solar Plexus. 


Every time we breathe we fill our lungs with air and at the same time vitalize our 
body with this Pranic Ether which is Life itself, so that we have the opportunity of 
making a conscious connection with All Life, All Intelligence and All Substance. 


A knowledge of your relation and oneness with this Principle that governs the 
Universe and the simple method whereby you can consciously identify yourself 
with it gives you a scientific understanding of a law whereby you may free 


yourself from disease, from lack or limitation of any kind; in fact, it enables you 
to breathe the "breath of life" into your own nostrils. 


136 


26. 


Dik 


28. 


29. 


30. 


This "breath of life" is a superconscious reality. It is the essence of the "I am." It 
iS pure "Being" or Universal Substance, and our conscious unity with it enables us 
to localize it, and thus exercise the powers of this creative energy. 


Thought is creative vibration and the quality of the conditions created will depend 
upon the quality of our thought, because we cannot express powers which we do 
not possess. We must "be" before we can "do" and we can "do" only to the extent 
to which we "are," and so what we do will necessarily coincide with what we 
"are" and what we are depends upon what we "think."Every time you think you 
start a train of causation which will create a condition in strict accordance with the 
quality of the thought which originated it. Thought which is in harmony with the 
Universal Mind will result in corresponding conditions. Thought which is 
destructive or discordant will produce corresponding results. You may use 
thought constructively or destructively, but the immutable law will not allow you 
to plant a thought of one kind and reap the fruit of another. You are free to use 
this marvelous creative power as you will, but you must take the consequences. 


This is the danger from what is called Will Power. There are those who seem to 
think that by force of will they can coerce this law; that they can sow seed of one 
kind and by "Will Power" make it bear fruit of another, but the fundamental 
principle of creative power is in the Universal, and therefore the idea of forcing a 
compliance with our wishes by the power of the individual will is an inverted 
conception which may appear to succeed for a while but is eventually doomed to 
failure - because it antagonizes the very power which it is seeking to use. 


It is the individual attempting to coerce the Universal, the finite in conflict with 
the Infinite. Our permanent well being will be best conserved by a conscious 
cooperation with the continuous forward movement of the Great Whole. 


For your exercise this week, go into the Silence and concentrate on the fact that 
"In him we live and move and have our being" is literally and scientifically exact! 
That you ARE because He IS, that if He is Omnipresent He must be in you. That 
if He is all in all you must be in Him! That He is Spirit and you are made in "His 
image and likeness" and that the only difference between His spirit and your spirit 
is one of degree, that a part must be the same 1n kind and quality as the whole. 
When you can realize this clearly you will have found the secret of the creative 
power of thought, you will have found the origin of both good and evil, you will 
have found the secret of the wonderful power of concentration, you will have 
found the key to the solution of every problem whether physical, financial, or 
environmental. 


"The power to think consecutively and deeply and clearly, is an avowed and deadly 
enemy to mistakes and blunders, superstitions, unscientific theories, irrational beliefs, 
unbridled enthusiasm, fanaticism." 

- Haddock 


137 


PART TWENTY Study Questions with Answers 


191. Upon what condition does power depend? Upon recognition and use. 

192. What is recognition? Consciousness. 

193. How do we become conscious of power? By thinking. 

194. What then is the true business of life? Correct scientific thinking. 

195. What is correct scientific thinking? The ability to adjust our thought processes to 
the will of the Universal. In other words, to cooperate with Natural laws. 

196. How is this accomplished? By securing a perfect understanding of the principles, 
forces, methods and combinations of mind. 

197. What is this Universal Mind? The basic fact of all existence. 

198. What is the cause of all lack, limitation, disease and discord? It is due to the 
operation of exactly the same law, the law operates relentlessly and is continually 
bringing about conditions in correspondence with the thought which originated or created 
them. 

199. What is inspiration? The art of realizing the omnipresence of Omniscience. 

200. Upon what does the conditions with which we meet depend? Upon the quality of 
our thought. Because what we do depends upon what we are and what we are depends 
upon what we think. 


138 


INTRODUCTION - PART TWENTY-ONE 


It is my privilege to enclose Part Twenty-One. In paragraph 7 you will find that one 
of the secrets of success, one of the methods of organizing victory, one of the 
accomplishments of the Master Mind is to think big thoughts. 

In paragraph 8 you will find that everything which we hold in our consciousness for 
any length of time becomes impressed upon our subconsciousness and so becomes a 
pattern which the creative energy will wave into our life and environment. This is the 
secret of the wonderful power of prayer. 

We know that the universe is governed by law; that for every effect there must be a 
cause, and that the same cause, under the same conditions, will invariably produce the 
same effect. Consequently, if prayer has ever been answered, it will always be answered, 
if the proper conditions are complied with. This must necessarily be true; otherwise the 
universe would be a chaos instead of a cosmos. The answer to prayer is therefore subject 
to law, and this law is definite, exact and scientific, just as are the laws governing 
gravitation and electricity. An understanding of this law takes the foundation of 
Christianity out of the realm of superstition and credulity and places it upon the firm rock 
of scientific understanding. 

But, unfortunately, there are comparatively few persons who know how to pray. They 
understand that there are laws governing electricity, mathematics, and chemistry, but, for 
some inexplicable reason, it never seems to occur to them that there are also spiritual 
laws, and that these laws are also definite, scientific, exact, and operate with immutable 
precision. 


1S? 


1. 


PART TWENTY-ONE 


The real secret of power is consciousness of power. The Universal Mind is 
unconditional; therefore, the more conscious we become of our unity with this 
mind, the less conscious we shall become of conditions and limitations, and as we 
become emancipated or freed from conditions we come into a realization of the 
unconditional. We have become free! 


As soon as we become conscious of the inexhaustible power in the world within, 
we begin to draw on this power and apply and develop the greater possibilities 
which this discernment has realized, because whatever we become conscious of, 
is invariably manifested in the objective world, is brought forth into tangible 
expression. 


This is because the Infinite mind, which is the source from which all things 
proceed, is one and indivisible, and each individual is a channel whereby this 
Eternal Energy is being manifested. Our ability to think is our ability to act upon 
this Universal substance, and what we think is what is created or produced in the 
objective world. 


The result of this discovery is nothing less than marvelous, and means that mind 
is extraordinary in quality, limitless in quantity, and contains possibilities without 
number. To become conscious of this power is to become a "live wire"; it has the 
same effect as placing an ordinary wire in contact with a wire that is charged. The 
Universal is the live wire. It carries power sufficient to meet every situation which 
may arise in the life of every individual. When the individual mind touches the 
Universal Mind it receives all the power it requires. This is the world within. All 
science recognizes the reality of this world, and all power is contingent upon our 
recognition of this world. 


The ability to eliminate imperfect conditions depends upon mental action, and 
mental action depends upon consciousness of power; therefore, the more 
conscious we become of our unity with the source of all power, the greater will be 
our power to control and master every condition. 


Large ideas have a tendency to eliminate all smaller ideas so that it is well to hold 
ideas large enough to counteract and destroy all small or undesirable tendencies. 
This will remove innumerable petty and annoying obstacles from your path. You 
also become conscious of a larger world of thought, thereby increasing your 


mental capacity as well as placing yourself in position to accomplish something of 
value. 


This is one of the secrets of success, one of the methods of organizing victory, 


one of the accomplishments of the Master-mind. He thinks big thoughts. The 
creative energies of mind find no more difficulty in handling large situations, than 


140 


seen ones. Mind is just as much present in the Infinitely large as in the Infinitely 
small. 


8. When we realize these facts concerning mind we understand how we may bring 
ourselves any condition by creating the corresponding conditions in our 
consciousness, because everything which is held for any length of time in the 
consciousness, eventually becomes impressed upon the subconscious and thus 
becomes a pattern which the creative energy will wave into the life and 
environment of the individual. 


9. In this way conditions are produced and we find that our lives are simply the 
reflection of our predominant thoughts, our mental attitude; we see then that the 
science of correct thinking is the one science, that it includes all other sciences. 


10. From this science we learn that every thought creates an impression on the brain, 
that these impressions create mental tendencies, and these tendencies create 
character, ability and purpose, and that the combined action of character, ability 
and purpose determines the experiences with which we shall meet in life. 


11. These experiences come to us through the law of attraction; through the action of 
this law we meet in the world without the experiences which correspond to our 
world within. 


12. The predominant thought or the mental attitude is the magnet, and the law is that 
“like attracts like”, consequently the mental attitude will invariably attract such 
conditions as correspond to its nature. 


13. This mental attitude is our personality and is composed of the thoughts which we 
have been creating in our own mind; therefore, if we wish a change in conditions 
all that is necessary is to change our thought; this will in turn change our mental 
attitude, which will in turn change our personality, which will in turn change the 
persons, things and conditions, or, the experiences with which we meet in life. 


14. It is, however, no easy matter to change the mental attitude, but by persistent 
effort it may be accomplished; the mental attitude is patterned after the mental 
pictures which have been photographed on the brain; if you do not like the 
pictures, destroy the negatives and create new pictures; this is the art of 
visualization. 


15. As soon as you have done this you will begin to attract new things, and the new 
things will correspond to the new pictures. To do this: impress on the mind a 
perfect picture of the desire which you wish to have objectified and continue to 
hold the picture in mind until results are obtained. 


16. If the desire is one which requires determination, ability, talent, courage, power or 
any other spiritual power, these are necessary essentials for your picture; build 


141 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


them in; they are the vital part of the picture; they are the feeling which combines 
with thought and creates the irresistible magnetic power which draws the things 
you require to you. They give your picture life, and life means growth, and as 
soon as it beings to grow, the result is practically assured. 


Do not hesitate to aspire to the highest possible attainments in anything you may 
undertake, for the mind forces are ever ready to lend themselves to a purposeful 
will in the effort to crystallize its highest aspirations into acts, accomplishments, 
and events. An illustration of how these mind forces operate is suggested by the 
method in which all our habits are formed. We do a thing, then do it again, and 
again, and again, until it becomes easy and perhaps almost automatic; and the 
same rule applies in breaking any and all bad habits; we stop doing a thing, and 
then avoid it again, and again until we are entirely free from it; and if we do fail 
now and then, we should by no means lose hope, for the law is absolute and 
invincible and gives us credit for every effort and every success, even though our 
efforts and successes are perhaps intermittent. 


There is no limit to what this law can do for you; dare to believe in your own idea; 
remember that Nature is plastic to the ideal; think of the ideal as an already 
accomplished fact. 


The real battle of life is one of ideas; it is being fought out by the few against the 
many; on the one side is the constructive and creative thought, on the other side 
the destructive and negative thought; the creative thought is dominated by an 
ideal, the passive thought is dominated by appearances. On both sides are men of 
science, men of letters, and men of affairs. 


On the creative side are men who spend their time in laboratories, or over 
microscopes and telescopes, side by side with the men who dominate the 
commercial, political, and scientific world; on the negative side or men who 
spend their time investigating law and precedent, men who mistake theology for 
religion, statesmen who mistake might for right, and all the millions who seem to 
prefer precedent to progress, who are eternally looking backward instead of 
forward, who see only the world without, but know nothing of the world within. 


In the last analysis there are but these two classes; all men will have to take their 
place on one side or the other; they will have to go forward, or go back; there is 
no standing still in a world where all is motion; it is this attempt to stand still that 
gives sanction and force to arbitrary and unequal codes of law. 


That we are in a period of transition is evidenced by the unrest which is 
everywhere apparent. The complaint of humanity is as a roll of heaven's artillery, 
commencing with low and threatening notes and increasing until the sound is sent 
from cloud to cloud, and the lightning splits the air and earth. 


142 


23. The sentries who patrol the most advanced outposts of the Industrial, Political, 
and Religious world are calling anxiously to each other. What of the night? The 
danger and insecurity of the position they occupy and attempt to hold is becoming 
more apparent every hour. The dawn of a new era necessarily declares that the 
existing order of things cannot much longer be. 


24. The issue between the old regime and the new, the crux of the social problem, is 
entirely a question of conviction in the minds of the people as to the nature of the 
Universe. When they realize that the transcendent force of spirit or mind of the 
Cosmos is within each individual, it will be possible to frame laws that shall 
consider the liberties and rights of the many instead of the privileges of the few. 


25. As long as the people regard the Cosmic power as a power non-human and alien 
to humanity, so long will it be comparatively easy for a supposed privileged class 
to rule by Divine right in spite of every protest of social sentiment. The real 
interest of democracy is therefore to exalt, emancipate and recognize the divinity 
of the human spirit. To recognize that all power is from within. That no human 
being has any more power than any other human being, except such as may 
willingly be delegated to him. The old regime would have us believe that the law 
was superior to the law-makers; herein is the gist of the social crime of every 
form of privilege and personal inequality, the institutionalizing of the fatalistic 
doctrine of Divine election. 


26. The Divine Mind is the Universal Mind; it makes no exceptions, it plays no 
favorites; it does not act through sheer caprice or from anger, jealousy or wrath; 
neither can it be flattered, cajoled or moved by sympathy or petition to supply 
man with some need which he thinks necessary for his happiness or even his 
existence. The Divine Mind makes no exceptions in favor any individual; but 
when the individual understands and realizes his Unity with the Universal 
principle he will appear to be favored because he will have found the source of all 
health, all wealth, and all power. 


27. For your exercise this week, concentrate on the Truth. Try to realize that the Truth 
shall make you free, that is, nothing can permanently stand in the way of your 
perfect success when you learn to apply the scientifically correct thought methods 
and principles. Realize that you are externalizing in your environment your 
inherent soul potencies. Realize that the Silence offers an ever available and 
almost unlimited opportunity for awakening the highest conception of Truth. Try 
to comprehend that Omnipotence itself is absolute silence, all else is change, 
activity, limitation. Silent thought concentration is therefore the true method of 
reaching, awakening, and then expressing the wonderful potential power of the 


world within. 
"The possibilities of thought training are infinite, its consequence eternal, and yet few 


take the pains to direct their thinking into channels that will do them good, but instead 
leave all to chance." - Marden 


143 


PART TWENTY-ONE Study Questions with Answers 


201. What is the real secret of power? The consciousness of power, because whatever 
we become conscious of, is invariably manifested in the objective world, is brought forth 
into tangible expression. 

202. What is the source of this power? The Universal Mind, from which all things 
proceed, and which is one and indivisible. 

203. How is this power being manifested? Through the individual, each individual is a 
channel whereby this energy is being differentiated in form. 

204. How may we connect with this Omnipotence? Our ability to think is our ability to 
act on this Universal Energy, and what we think is what is produced or created in the 
objective world. 

205. What is the result of this discovery? The result is nothing less than marvelous, it 
opens unprecedented and limitless opportunity. 

206. How, then, may we eliminate imperfect conditions? By becoming conscious of 
our Unity with the source of all power. 

207. What is one of the distinctive characteristics of the Master Mind? He thinks big 
thoughts, he holds ideas large enough to counteract and destroy all petty and annoying 
obstacles. 

208. How do experiences come to us? Through the law of attraction. 

209. How is this law brought into operation? By our predominant mental attitude. 

210. What is the issue between the old regime and the new? A question of conviction 
as to the nature of the Universe. The old regime is trying to cling to the fatalistic doctrine 
of Divine election. The new regime recognizes the divinity of the individual, the 
democracy of humanity. 


144 


INTRODUCTION - PART TWENTY-TWO 


In Part Twenty-two you will find that thoughts are spiritual seeds, which, when 
planted in the subconscious mind, have a tendency to sprout and grow, but unfortunately 
the fruit is frequently not to our liking. 

The various forms of inflammation, paralysis, nervousness and diseased conditions 
generally, are the manifestation of fear, worry, care, anxiety, jealousy, hatred and similar 
thought. 

The life processes are carried on by two distinct methods; first, the taking up and 
making use of nutritive material necessary for. constructing cells; second, breaking down 
and excreting the waste material. 

All life is based upon these constructive and destructive activities, and as food, water 
and air are the only requisites necessary for the construction of cells, it would seem that 
the problem of prolonging life indefinitely would not be a very difficult one. 

However strange it may seem, it is the second or destructive activity that is, with rare 
exception, the cause of all disease. The waste material accumulates and saturates the 
tissues, which causes autointoxication. This may be partial or general. In the first case the 
disturbance will be local; in the second place it will affect the whole system. 

The problem, then, before us in the healing of disease is to increase the inflow and 
distribution of vital energy throughout the system, and this can only be done by 
eliminating thoughts of fear, worry, care, anxiety, jealousy, hatred, and every other 
destructive thought, which tend to tear down and destroy the nerves and glands which 
control the excretion and elimination of poisonous and waste matter. 

"Nourishing foods and strengthening tonics" cannot bestow life, because these are but 
secondary manifestations to life. The primary manifestation of life and how you may get 
in touch with it is explained in the Part which I have the privilege of enclosing herewith. 


PART TWENTY-TWO 


Knowledge is of priceless value, because by applying knowledge we can make 
our future what we wish it to be. When we realize that our present character, our 
present environment, our present ability, our present physical condition are all the 
result of past methods of thinking, we shall begin to have some conception of the 
value of knowledge. 


If the state of our health is not all that could be desired, let us examine our method 
of thinking; let us remember that every thought produces an impression on the 
mind; every impression is a seed which will sink into the subconscious and form a 
tendency; the tendency will be to attract other similar thoughts and before we 
know it we shall have a crop which must be harvested. 


If these thoughts contain disease germs, the harvest will be sickness, decay, 
weakness, and failure; the question is, what are we thinking, what are we creating, 
what is the harvest to be? 


If there is any physical condition which it is necessary to change, the law 
governing visualization will be found effective. Make a mental image of physical 
perfection, hold it in the mind until it is absorbed by the consciousness. Many 
have eliminated chronic ailments in a few weeks by this method, and thousands 
have overcome and destroyed all manner of ordinary physical disturbances by this 
method in a few days, sometimes in a few minutes. 


It is through the law of vibration that the mind exercises this control over the 
body. We know that every mental action is a vibration, and we know that all form 
is simply a mode of motion, a rate of vibration. Therefore, any given vibration 
immediately modifies every atom in the body, every life cell is affected and an 
entire chemical change is made in every group of life cells. 


Everything in the Universe is what it is by virtue of its rate of vibration. Change 
the rate of vibration and you change the nature, quality and form. The vast 
panorama of nature, both visible and invisible, is being constantly changed by 
simply changing the rate of vibration, and as thought is a vibration we can also 
exercise this power. We can change the vibration and thus produce any condition 
which we desire to manifest in our bodies. 


We are all using this power every minute. The trouble is most of us are using it 
unconsciously and thus producing undesirable results. The problem is to use it 
intelligently and produce only desirable results. This should not be difficult, 

because we all have had sufficient experience to know what produces pleasant 


vibration in the body, and we also know the causes which produce the unpleasant 
and disagreeable sensations. 


146 


8. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


All that is necessary is to consult our own experience. When our thought has been 
uplifted, progressive, constructive, courageous, noble, kind or in any other way 
desirable, we have set in motion vibrations which brought about certain results. 
When our thought has been filled with envy, hatred, jealousy, criticism or any of 
the other thousand and one forms of discord, certain vibrations were set in motion 
which brought about certain other results of a different nature, and each of these 
rates of vibration, if kept up, crystallized in form. In the first case the result was 
mental, moral and physical health, and in the second case discord, inharmony and 
disease. 


We can understand, then, something of the power which the mind possesses over 
the body. 


The objective mind has certain effects on the body which are readily recognized. 
Someone says something to you which strikes you as ludicrous and you laugh, 
possibly until your whole body shakes, which shows that thought has control over 
the muscles of your body; or someone says something which excites your 
sympathy and your eyes fill with tears, which shows that thought controls the 
glands of your body; or someone says something which makes you angry and the 
blood mounts to your cheek, which shows that thought controls the circulation of 
your blood. But as these experiences are all the results of the action of your 
objective mind over the body, the results are of a temporary nature; they soon 
pass away and leave the situation as it was before. 


Let us see how the action of the subconscious mind over the body differs. You 
receive a wound; thousands of cells being the work of healing at once; in a few 
days or a few weeks the work is complete. You may even break a bone. No 
surgeon on earth can weld the parts together (I am not referring to the insertion of 
rods or other devices to strengthen or replace bones). He may set the bone for 
you, and the subjective mind will immediately begin the process of welding the 
parts together, and in a short time the bone is as solid as it ever was. You may 
swallow poison; the subjective mind will immediately discover the danger and 
make violent efforts to eliminate it. You may become infected with a dangerous 
germ; the subjective will at once commence to build a wall around the infected 
area and destroy the infection by absorbing it in the white blood corpuscles which 
it supplies for the purpose. 


These processes of the subconscious mind usually proceed without our personal 
knowledge or direction, and so long as we do not interfere the result is perfect, 
but, as these millions of repair cells are all intelligent and respond to our thought, 
they are often paralyzed and rendered impotent by our thoughts of fear, doubt, 
and anxiety. They are like an army of workmen, ready to start an important piece 
of work, but every time they get started on the undertaking a strike is called, or 
plans changed, until they finally get discouraged and give up. 


147 


13. 


14. 


15; 


16. 


Ly; 


18. 


i: 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


The way to health is founded on the law of vibration, which is the basis of all 
science, and this law is brought into operation by the mind, the "world within." It 
is a matter of individual effort and practice. Our world of power is within; if we 
are wise we shall not waste time and effort in trying to deal with effects as we 
find them in the "world without," which is only an external, a reflection. 


We shall always find the cause in the "world within"; by changing the cause, we 
change the effect. 


Every cell in your body is intelligent and will respond to your direction. The cells 
are all creators and will create the exact pattern which you give them. 


Therefore, when perfect images are placed before the subjective, the creative 
energies will build a perfect body. 


Brain cells are constructed in the same way. The quality of the brain is governed 
by the state of mind, or mental attitude, so that if undesirable mental attitudes are 
conveyed to the subjective they will in turn be transferred to the body; we can 
therefore readily see that if we wish the body to manifest health, strength and 
vitality this must be the predominant thought. 


We know then that every element of the human body 1s the result of a rate of 
vibration. 


We know that mental action is a rate of vibration. 


We know that a higher rate of vibration governs, modifies, controls, changes, or 
destroys a lower rate of vibration. 


We know that the rate of vibration is governed by the character of brain cells, and 
finally, 


We know how to create these brain cells; therefore, 


We know how to make any physical change in the body we desire, and having 
secured a working knowledge of the power of mind to this extent, we have come 
to know that there is practically no limitation which can be placed upon our 
ability to place ourselves in harmony with natural law, which is omnipotent. 


This influence or control over the body by mind is coming to be more and more 
generally understood, and many physicians are now giving the matter their earnest 
attention. Dr. Albert T. Shofield, who has written several important books on the 
subject, say, "The subject of mental therapeutics is still ignored in medical works 
generally. In our physiologies no references is made to the central controlling 


power that rules the body for its good, and the power of the mind over the body is 
seldom spoken of”. 


148 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


31. 


No doubt many physicians treat nervous diseases of functional origin wisely and 
well, but what we contend is that the knowledge they display was taught at no 
school, was learned from no book, but it is intuitive and empirical. 


This is not as it should be. The power of mental therapeutics should be the subject 
of careful, special and scientific teaching in every medical school. We might 
pursue the subject of maltreatment, or want of treatment, further in detail and 
describe the disastrous results of neglected cases; but the task is an invidious one. 


There can be no doubt that few patients are aware how much they can do for 
themselves. What the patient can do for himself, the forces he can set in motion 
are as yet unknown. We are inclined to believe that they are far greater than most 
imagine, and will undoubtedly be used more and more. Mental therapeutics may 
be directed by the patient himself to calming the mind in excitement, by arousing 
feelings of joy, hope, faith, and love; by suggesting motives for exertion, by 
regular mental work, by diverting the thoughts from the malady. 


For your exercise this week concentrate on Tennyson's beautiful lines "Speak to 
Him, thou, for He hears, and spirit with spirit can meet, Closer is He than 
breathing, and nearer than hands and feet." Then try to realize that when you do 
"Speak to Him" you are in touch with Omnipotence. 


This realization and recognition of this Omnipresent power will quickly destroy 
any and every form of sickness or suffering and substitute harmony and 
perfection. Then remember there are those who seem to think that sickness and 
suffering are sent by God; if so, every physician, every surgeon and every Red 
Cross nurse is defying the will of God and hospitals and sanitariums are places of 
rebellion instead of houses of mercy. Of course, this quickly reasons itself into an 
absurdity, but there are many; who still cherish the idea. 


Then let the thought rest on the fact that until recently theology has been trying to 
teach an impossible Creator, one who created beings capable of sinning and then 
allowed them to be eternally punished for such sins. Of course the necessary 
outcome of such extraordinary ignorance was to create fear instead of love, and 
so, after two thousand years of this kind of propaganda, Theology is now busily 
engaged in apologizing for Christendom. 


You will then more readily appreciate the ideal man, the man made in the image 
and likeness of God, and you will more readily appreciate the all originating Mind 
that forms, upholds, sustains, originates, and creates all there is. "All are but parts 
of one stupendous whole, Whose body nature is, and God the soul." Opportunity 
follows perception, action follows inspiration, growth follows knowledge, 
eminence flows progress. Always the spiritual first, then the transformation into 
the infinite and illimitable possibilities of achievement. 


149 


PART TWENTY-TWO Study Questions with Answers 


211. How may sickness be eliminated? By placing ourselves in harmony with Natural 
Law which is Omnipotent. 

212. What is the process? A realization that man is a spiritual being and that this spirit 
must necessarily be perfect. 

213. What is the result? A conscious recognition of this perfection - first intellectually, 
then emotionally - brings about a manifestation of this perfection. 

214. Why is this so? Because thought is spiritual and therefore creative and correlates 
with its object and brings it into manifestation. 

215. What Natural Law is brought into operation? The Law of Vibration. 

216. Why does this govern? Because a higher rate of vibration governs, modifies, 
controls, changes, or destroys a lower rate of vibration. 

217. Is this system of mental therapeutics generally recognized? Yes, there are 
literally millions of people in this country who make use of it in one form or another (and 
obviously many more world-wide). 

218. What is the result of this system of thought? For the first time in the world's 
history every man's highest reasoning faculty can be satisfied by a demonstrable truth 
which is now fast flooding the world. 

219. Is this system applicable to other forms of supply? It will meet every human 
requirement or necessity. 

220. Is this system scientific or religious? Both. True science and true religion are twin 
sisters, where one goes, the other necessarily follows. 


150 


INTRODUCTION - PART TWENTY-THREE 


In the part which I have the honor to transmit herewith you will find that money 
weaves itself into the entire fabric of our very existence; that the law of success is 
service; that we get what we give, and for this reason we should consider it a great 
privilege to be able to give. 

We have found that thought is the creative activity behind every constructive 
enterprise. We can therefore give nothing of more practical value than our thought. 

Creative thought requires attention, and the power of attention is, as we have found, 
the weapon of the Super-man. Attention develops concentration, and concentration 
develops Spiritual Power, and Spiritual Power is the mightiest force in existence. 

This is the science which embraces all sciences. It is the art which, above all arts, is 
relevant to human life. In the mastery of this science and this art there is opportunity for 
unending progression. Perfection in this is not acquired in six days, nor in six weeks, nor 
in six months. It is the labor of life. Not to go forward is to go backward. 

It is inevitable that the entertainment of positive, constructive and unselfish thoughts 
should have a far-reaching effect for good. Compensation is the key-note of the universe. 
Nature is constantly seeking to strike an equilibrium. Where something is sent out 
something must be received; else there should be a vacuum formed. By observance of 
this rule you cannot fail to profit in such measure as to amply justify your effort along 
this line. 


131 


PART TWENTY-THREE 


The money consciousness is an attitude of mind; it is the open door to the arteries 
of commerce. It is the receptive attitude. Desire is the attractive force which sets 
the current in motion and fear is the great obstacle by which the current is stopped 
or completely reversed, turned away from us. 


Fear is just the opposite from money consciousness; it is poverty consciousness, 
and as the law is unchangeable we get exactly what we give; if we fear we get 
what we feared. Money weaves itself into the entire fabric of our very existence; 
it engages the best thought of the best minds. 


We make money by making friends, and we enlarge our circle of friends by 
making money for them, by helping them, by being of service to them. The first 
law of success then is service, and this in turn is built on integrity and justice. The 
man who at least is not fair in his intention is simply ignorant; he has missed the 
fundamental law of all exchange; he is impossible; he will lose surely and 
certainly; he may not know it; he may think he is winning, but he is doomed to 
certain defeat. He cannot cheat the Infinite. The law of compensation will demand 
of him an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. 


The forces of life are volatile; they are composed of our thoughts and ideals and 
these in turn are molded into form; our problem is to keep an open mind, to 
constantly reach out for the new, to recognize opportunity, to be interested in the 
race rather than the goal, for the pleasure is in the pursuit rather than the 
possession. 


You can make a money magnet of yourself, but to do so you must first consider 
how you can make money for other people. If you have the necessary insight to 
perceive and utilize opportunities and favorable conditions and recognize values, 
you can put yourself in position to take advantage of them, but your greatest 
success will come as you are enabled to assist others. What benefits one must 
benefit all. 


A generous thought is filled with strength and vitality, a selfish thought contains 
the germs of dissolution; it will disintegrate and pass away. Great financiers are 
simply channels for the distribution of wealth; enormous amounts come and go, 
but it would be as dangerous to stop the outgo as the income; both ends must 
remain open; and so our greatest success will come as we recognize that it is just 
as essential to give as to get. 


If we recognize the Omnipotent power that is the source of all supply we will 
adjust our consciousness to this supply in such a way that it will constantly attract 
all that is necessary to itself and we shall find that the more we give the more we 
get. Giving in this sense implies service. The banker gives his money, the 
merchant gives his goods, the author gives his thought, the workman gives his 


152 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


skill; all have something to give, but the more they can give, the more they get, 
and the more they get the more they are enabled to give. 


The financier gets much because he gives much; he thinks; he is seldom a man 
that lets anyone else do his thinking for him; he wants to know how results are to 
be secured; you must show him; when you can do this he will furnish the means 
by which hundreds or thousands may profit, and in proportion as they are 
successful will he be successful. Morgan, Rockefeller, Carnegie and others did 
not get rich because they lost money for other people; on the contrary, it is 
because they made money for other people that they became the wealthiest men in 
the wealthiest country on the globe. 


The average person is entirely innocent of any deep thinking; he accepts the ideas 
of others, and repeats them, in very much the same way as a parrot; this is readily 
seen when we understand the method which is used to form public opinion, and 
this docile attitude on the part of a large majority who seem perfectly willing to 
let a few persons do all their thinking for them is what enables a few men ina 
great many countries to usurp all the avenues of power and hold the millions in 
subjection. Creative thinking requires attention. 


The power of attention is called concentration; this power is directed by the will; 
for this reason we must refuse to concentrate or think of anything except the 
things we desire. Many are constantly concentrating upon sorrow, loss and 
discord of every kind; as thought is creative it necessarily follows that this 
concentration inevitable leads to more loss, more sorrow and more discord. How 
could it be otherwise? On the other hand, when we meet with success, gain, or 
any other desirable condition, we naturally concentrate upon the effects of these 
things and thereby create more, and so it follows that much leads to more. 


How an understanding of this principle can be utilized in the business world is 
well told by an associate of mine: 


"Spirit, whatever else it may or may not be, must be considered as the Essence of 
Consciousness, the Substance of Mind, the reality underlying Thought. And as all 
ideas are phases of the activity of Consciousness, Mind or Thought, it follows that 
in Spirit, and in it alone, is to be found the Ultimate Fact, the Real Thing, or 
Idea." 


This being admitted, does it not seem reasonable to hold that a true understanding 
of Spirit, and its laws of manifestation, would be about the most "practical" thing 
that a "practical" person can hope to find? Does it not seem certain that if the 
"practical" men of the world could but realize this fact, they would "fall all over 
themselves" in getting to the place in which they might obtain such knowledge of 
spiritual things and laws? These men are not fools; they need only to grasp this 
fundamental fact in order to move in the direction of that which is the essence of 


all achievement. 


155 


14. 


15: 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


Let me give you a concrete example. I know a man in Chicago whom | had 
always 

considered to be quite materialistic. He had made several successes in life; and 
also several failures. The last time I had a talk with him he was practically "down 
and out," as compared with his former business condition. It looked as if he had 
indeed reached "the end of his rope," for he was well advanced into the stage of 
middle-age, and new ideas came more slowly, and less frequently to him than in 
former years. 


He said to me, in substance: "I know that all things that 'work out' in business are 
the result of Thought; any fool knows that. Just now, I seem to be short on 
thoughts and good ideas. But, if this 'All-Mind' teaching is correct, it should be 
possible for the individual to attain a 'direct connection! with Infinite Mind; and in 
Infinite Mind there must be the possibility of all kinds of good ideas which a man 
of my courage and experience could put to practical use in the business world, 
and make a big success thereof. It looks good to me; and I am going to look into 
it 


This was several years ago. The other day I heard of this man again. Talking to a 
friend, I said: "What has come of our old friend X? Has he ever gotten on his feet 
again?" The friend looked at me in amazement. "Why," said he, "don't you know 
about X's great success? He is the Big Man in the ' Company' (naming 
a concern which has mad a phenomenal success during the last eighteen months 
and is now well known, by reason of its advertisements, from one end of the 
country to another, and also abroad). He is the man who supplied the BIG IDEA 
for that concern. Why, he is about a half-million to the good and is moving 
rapidly toward the million mark; all in the space of eighteen months." I had not 
connected this man with the enterprise mentioned; although I knew of the 
wonderful success of the company in question. Investigation has shown that the 
story is true, and that the above stated facts are not exaggerated in the slightest. 


Now, what do you think of that? To me, it means that this man actually made the 
"direct connection" with Infinite Mind -- Spirit -- and, having found it, he set it to 
work for him. He "used it in his business." 


Does this sound sacrilegious or blasphemous? I hope not; I do not mean it to be 
so. Take away the implication of Personality, or Magnified Human Nature, from 
the conception of the "The Infinite," and you have left the conception of an 
Infinite Presence-Power, the Quintessence of which is Consciousness -- in fact, at 
the last, Spirit. As this man, also, at the last, must be considered as a manifestation 
of Spirit; there is nothing sacrilegious in the idea that he, being Spirit, should so 
harmonize himself with his Origin and Source that he would be able to manifest at 
least a minor degree of its Power. All of us do this, more or less, when we use our 
minds in the direction of Creative Thought. This man did more, he went about it 
in an intensely "practical" manner. 


154 


20. I have not consulted him about his method of procedure, though I intend doing so 
at the first opportunity, but, he not only drew upon the Infinite Supply for the 
ideas which he needed (and which formed the seed of his success), but that he 
also used the Creative Power of Thought in building up for himself an Idealistic 
Pattern of that which he hoped to manifest in material form, adding thereto, 
changing, improving its detail, from time to time -- proceeding from the general 
outline to the finished detail. I judge this to be the facts of the case, not alone from 
my recollection of the conversation a few years ago, but also because I have 
found the same thing to be true in the cases of other prominent men who have 
made similar manifestation of Creative Thought. 

21. Those who may shrink from this idea of employing the Infinite Power to aid one 
in his work in the material world, should remember that if the Infinite objected in 
the least to such a procedure the thing could never happen. The Infinite is quite 
able to take care of Itself. 


22. "Spirituality" is quite "practical," very "practical," intensely "practical." It teaches 
that Spirit is the Real Thing, the Whole Thing, and that Matter is but plastic stuff, 
which Spirit is able to create, mould, manipulate, and fashion to its will. 
Spirituality is the most "practical" thing in the world -- the only really and 
absolutely "practical" thing that there is! 


23. This week concentrate on the fact that man is not a body with a spirit, but a spirit 
with a body, and that it is for this reason that his desires are incapable of any 
permanent satisfaction in anything not spiritual. Money is therefore of no value 
except to bring about the conditions which we desire, and these conditions are 
necessarily harmonious. Harmonious conditions necessitate sufficient supply, so 
that if there appears to be any lack, we should realize that the idea or soul of 
money is service, and as this thought takes form, channels of supply will be 
opened, and you will have the satisfaction of knowing that spiritual methods are 
entirely practical. 


"We have discovered that premeditated, orderly thinking for a purpose matures that 
purpose into fixed form, so that we may be absolutely sure of the result of our dynamic 


experiment." 
- Francis Larimer Warner 


155 


PART TWENTY-THREE Study Questions 


221. What is the first law of success? Service. 

222. How may we be of the most service? Have an open mind; be interested in the race 
rather than the goal, in the pursuit rather than possession. 

223. What is the result of a selfish thought? It contains the germs of dissolution. 

224. How will our greatest success be achieved? By a recognition of the fact that it is 
just as essential to give as to receive. 

225. Why do financiers frequently meet with great success? Because they do their 
own thinking. 

226. Why do the great majority in every country remain the docile and apparently 
willing tools of the few? Because they let the few do all their thinking for them. 

227. What is the effect of concentrating upon sorrow and loss? More sorrow and more 
loss. 

228. What is the effect of concentrating upon gain? More gain. 

229. Is this principle used in the business world? It is the only principle which 1s ever 
used, or ever can be used; there is no other principle. The fact that it may be used 
unconsciously does not alter the situation. 

230. What is the practical application of this principle? The fact that success is an 
effect, not a cause, and if we wish to secure the effect we must ascertain the cause, or 
idea or thought by which the effect is created. 

"Nurture your mind with great thoughts; to believe in the heroic makes heroes." - Disraeli 


156 


INTRODUCTION - PART TWENTY-FOUR 


Enclosed you will find Part Twenty-four, your final lesson of this course. 

If you have practiced each of the exercises a few minutes every day, as suggested, 
you will have found that you can get out of life exactly what you wish by first putting 
into life that which you wish, and you will probably agree with the student who said: 
"The thought is almost overwhelming, so vast, so available, so definite, so reasonable and 
so usable." 

The fruit of this knowledge is, as it were, a gift of the Gods; it is the "truth" that 
makes men free, not only free from every lack and limitation, but free from sorrow, 
worry and care, and, is it not wonderful to realize that this law is no respector of persons, 
that it makes no difference what your habit of thought may be, the way has been 
prepared. 

If you are inclined to be religious, the greatest religious teacher the world has ever 
known made the way so plain that all may follow. If your mental bias is toward physical 
science, the law will operate with mathematical certainty. If you are inclined to be 
philosophical, Plato or Emerson may be your teacher, but in either case, you may reach 
degrees of power to which it is impossible to assign any limit. 

An understanding of this principle, I believe, is the secret for which the ancient 
Alchemists vainly sought, because it explains how gold in the mind may be transmuted 
into gold in the heart and in the hand. 


PART TWENTY-FOUR 


When the scientists first put the Sun in the center of the Solar System and sent the 
earth spinning around it, there was immense surprise and consternation. The 
whole idea was self-evidently false; nothing was more certain than the movement 
of the Sun across the sky, and anyone could see it descend behind the western 
hills and sink into the sea; scholars raged and scientists rejected the idea as 
absurd, yet the evidence has finally carried conviction in the minds of all. 


We speak of a bell as a "sounding body," yet we know that all the bell can do is to 
produce vibrations in the air. When these vibrations come at the rate of sixteen 
per second, they cause a sound to be heard in the mind. It is also possible for the 
mind to hear vibrations up to the rate of 38,000 vibrations per second. When the 
number increases beyond this, all is silence again; so that we know that the sound 
is not in the bell, it is in our own mind. 


We speak and even think of the Sun as "giving light." Yet we know it is simply 
giving forth energy which produces vibrations in the ether at the rate of four 
hundred trillion a second, causing what are termed light waves, so that we know 
that we call light is simply a form of energy and that the only light there is, is the 
sensation caused in the mind by the motion of the waves. When the number 
increases, the light changes in color, each change in color being caused by shorter 
and more rapid vibrations; so that although we speak of the rose as being red, the 
grass as being green, or the sky as being blue, we know that the colors exist only 
in our minds, and are the sensations experienced by us as the result of the 
vibrations of light waves. When the vibrations are reduced below four hundred 
trillion a second, they no longer affect us as light, but we experience the sensation 
of heat. It is evident, therefore, that we cannot depend upon the evidence of the 
senses for our information concerning the realities of things; if we did we should 
believe that the sun moved, that the world was flat instead of round, that the stars 
were bits of light instead of vast suns. 


The whole range then of the theory and practice of any system of metaphysics 
consists in knowing the Truth concerning yourself and the world in which you 
live; in knowing that in order to express harmony, you must think harmony; in 
order to express health you must think health; and in order to express abundance 
you must think abundance; to do this you must reverse the evidence of the senses. 


When you come to know that every form of disease, sickness, lack and limitation 
are simply the result of wrong thinking, you will have come to know "the Truth 
which shall make you free." You will see how mountains may be removed. If 
these mountains consist only of doubt, fear, distrust or other forms of 


discouragement, they are none the less real, and they need not only to be removed 
but to be "cast into the sea." 


158 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


Your real work consists in convincing yourself of the truth of these statements. 
When you have succeeded in doing this you will have no difficulty in thinking the 


truth, and as has been shown, the truth contains a vital principle and will manifest 
itself. 


Those who heal diseases by mental methods have come to know this truth, they 
demonstrate it in their lives and the lives of others daily. They know that life, 
health and abundance are Omnipresent, filling all space, and they know that those 
who allow disease or lack of any kind to manifest, have as yet not come into an 
understanding of this great law. 


As all conditions are thought creations and therefore entirely mental, disease and 
lack are simply mental conditions in which the person fails to perceive the truth; 
as soon as the error is removed, the condition is removed. 


The method for removing this error is to go into the Silence and know the Truth; 
as all mind is one mind, you can do this for yourself or anyone else. If you have 
learned to form mental images of the conditions desired, this will be the easiest 
and quickest way to secure results; if not, results can be accomplished by 
argument, by the process of convincing yourself absolutely of the truth of your 
statement. 


Remember, and this is one of the most difficult as well as most wonderful 
statements to grasp.... remember that no matter what the difficulty is, no matter 
where it is, no matter who is affected, you have no patient but yourself; you have 
nothing to do but to convince yourself of the truth which you desire to see 
manifested. 


This is an exact scientific statement in accordance with every system of 
Metaphysics in existence, and no permanent results are ever secured in any other 
way. 


Every form of concentration, forming Mental Images, Argument, and Auto- 
Suggestion are all simply methods by which you are enabled to realize the Truth. 


If you desire to help someone, to destroy some form of lack, limitation or error, 
the correct method is not to think of the person whom you wish to help; the 
intention to help them is entirely sufficient, as this puts you in mental touch with 
the person. Then drive out of your own mind any belief of lack, limitation, 
disease, danger, difficulty or whatever the trouble might be. As soon as you have 
succeeded is doing this the result will have been accomplished, and the person 


will be free. 


But remember that thought is creative and consequently every time you allow 
your thought to rest on any inharmonious condition, you must realize that such 


159 


13: 


16. 


M7: 


18. 


19; 


20. 


21. 


conditions are apparent only, they have no reality, that spirit is the only reality and 
it can never be less than perfect. 


All thought is a form of energy, a rate of vibration, but a thought of the Truth is 
the highest rate of vibration known and consequently destroys every form of error 
in exactly the same way that light destroys darkness; no form of error can exist 
when the "Truth" appears, so that your entire mental work consists in coming into 
an understanding of the Truth. This will enable you to overcome every form of 
lack, limitation or disease of any kind. 


We can get no understanding of the truth from the world without; the world 
without is relative only; Truth is absolute. We must therefore find it in the "world 
within." 


To train the mind to see Truth only is to express true conditions only, our ability 
to do this will be an indication as to the progress we are making. 


The absolute truth is that the "I" is perfect and complete; the real "I" is spiritual 
and can therefore never be less than perfect; it can never have any lack, limitation, 
or disease. The flash of genius does not have origin in the molecular motion of the 
brain; it is inspired by the ego, the spiritual "I" which is one with the Universal 
Mind, and it is our ability to recognize this Unity which is the cause of all 
inspiration, all genius. These results are far reaching and have effect upon 
generations yet to come; they are the pillars of fire which mark the path that 
millions follow. 


Truth is not the result of logical training or of experimentation, or even of 
observation; it is the product of a developed consciousness. Truth within a Caesar, 
manifests in a Caesar's deportment, in his life and his action; his influence upon 
social forms and progress. Your life and your actions and your influence in the 
world will depend upon the degree of truth which you are enabled to perceive, for 
truth will not manifest in creeds, but in conduct. 


Truth manifests in character, and the character of a man, should be the 
interpretation of his religion, or what to him is truth, and this will in turn be 
evidenced in the character of his possession. If a man complains of the drift of his 
fortune he is just as unjust to himself as if he should deny rational truth, though it 
stand patent and irrefutable. 


Our environment and the innumerable circumstances and accidents of our lives 
already exist in the subconscious personality which attracts to itself the mental 
and physical material which is congenial to its nature. Thus our future being 
determined from our present, and if there should be apparent injustice in any 
feature or phase of our personal life, we must look within for the cause, try to 
discover the mental fact which is responsible for the outward manifestation. 


160 


22. 


23. 


24 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


of, 


It is this truth which makes you "free" and it is the conscious knowledge of this 
truth which will enable you to overcome every difficulty. 


The conditions with which you meet in the world without are invariably the result 
of the conditions obtaining in the world within, therefore it follows with scientific 
accuracy that by holding the perfect ideal in mind you can bring about ideal 
conditions in your environment. 


. If you see only the incomplete, the imperfect, the relative, the limited, these 


conditions will manifest in your life; but if you train your mind to see and realize 
the spiritual ego, the "I" which is forever perfect and complete, harmonious; 
wholesome, and healthful conditions only will be manifested. 


As thought is creative, and the truth is the highest and most perfect thought which 
anyone can think, it is self-evident that to think the truth is to create that which is 
true and it is again evident that when truth comes into being that which is false 
must cease to be. 


The Universal Mind is the totality of all mind which is in existence. Spirit is 
Mind, because spirit is intelligent. The words are, therefore, synonymous. 


The difficulty with which you have to contend is to realize that mind is not 
individual. It is omnipresent. It exists everywhere. In other words, there is no 
place where it 1s not. It is, therefore, Universal. 


Men have, heretofore, generally used the word "God" to indicate this Universal, 
creative principle; but the word "God" does not convey the right meaning. Most 
people understand this word to mean something outside of themselves; while 
exactly the contrary is the fact. It is our very life. Without it we would be dead. 
We would cease to exist. The minute the spirit leaves the body, we are as nothing. 
Therefore, spirit is really, all there is of us. 


Now, the only activity which the spirit possesses is the power to think. Therefore, 
thought must be creative, because spirit is creative. This creative power is 
impersonal and your ability to think is your ability to control it and make use of it 
for the benefit of yourself and others. 


When the truth of this statement is realized, understood, and appreciated, you will 
have come into possession of the Master-Key, but remember that only those who 
are wise enough to understand, broad enough to weigh the evidence, firm enough 
to follow their own judgment, and strong enough to make the sacrifice exacted, 
may enter and partake. 


This week, try to realize that this is truly a wonderful world in which we live, that 


you are a wonderful being that many are awakening to a knowledge of the Truth, 
and as fast as they awake and come into a knowledge of the “things which have 


161 


been prepared for them” they, too, realize that "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, 
neither hath it entered into the heart of man," the splendors which exist for those 
who find themselves in the Promised Land. They have crossed the river of 
judgment and have arrived at the point of discrimination between the true and the 
false, and have found that all they ever willed or dreamed, was but a faint concept 
of the dazzling reality. 


"Though an inheritance of acres may be bequeathed, an inheritance of knowledge and 
wisdom cannot. The wealthy man may pay others for doing his work for him, but it is 
impossible to get his thinking done for him by another or to purchase any kind of self- 
culture." 

- S. Smiles 


PART TWENTY-FOUR Study Questions with Answers 


231. Upon what principle does the theory and practice of every system of 
Metaphysics in existence depend? Upon a knowledge of the "Truth" concerning 
yourself and the world in which you life. 

232. What is the "Truth" concerning yourself? The real "I" or ego 1s spiritual and can 
therefore never be less than perfect. 

233. What is the method of destroying any form of error? To absolutely convince 
yourself of the "Truth" concerning the condition which you wish to see manifested. 
234. Can we do this for others? The Universal Mind in which "we live and move and 
have our being" is one and indivisible, it is therefore just as possible to help others as to 
help ourselves. 

235. What is the Universal Mind? The totality of all mind in existence. 

236. Where is the Universal Mind? The Universal Mind is omnipresent, it exists 
everywhere. There is no place where it is not. It is therefore within us. It is "The World 
within." It is our spirit, our life. 

237. What is the nature of the Universal Mind? It is spiritual and consequently 
creative. It seeks to express itself in form. 

238. How may we act on the Universal Mind? Our ability to think is our ability to act 
on the Universal Mind and bring it into manifestation for the benefit of ourselves or 
others. 

239. What is meant by thinking? Clear, decisive, calm, deliberate, sustained thought 
with a definite end in view. 

240. What will be the result? You will also be able to say, "It is not I that doeth the 
works, but the ‘Father’ that dwelleth within me, He doeth the works." You will come to 
know that the "Father" is the Universal Mind and that He does really and truly dwell 
within you, in other words, you will come to know that the wonderful promises made in 
the Bible are fact, not fiction, and can be demonstrated by anyone having sufficient 
understanding. 


"Temples have their sacred images, and we see what influence they have always had over 
a great part of mankind, but, in truth, the ideas and images in men's minds are the 
invisible powers that constantly govern them; and to these they all pay universally a 
ready submission." - Jonathan Edwards 


163 


Made in the USA 
Coppell, TX 
24 January 2023 


ANAC 


11628842R10090 


* 


ace who come into this . 
= .stndetetandings are inspired bya 
‘new light, a new forée; they gain 
confidence and’ greater power. each- 
day, they realize their hopes and: 
. their dreams come true, life has a 
_ deeper, fuller, clearer: meaning. 
_° than before". 7” 
ie #2 ‘Charles Haanel 


* 
Ke * 


‘* 


me Bed oes 


il iu fF 


9798 


