     __________________________________________________________________

           Title: Treatise on the Love of God
      Creator(s): Francis de Sales, St. (1567-1622)
     Print Basis: New York: Benziger Brothers, ca. 1884
          Rights: Public Domain
   CCEL Subjects: All; Classic; Christian Life; Proofed
      LC Call no: BX2179
     LC Subjects:

                  Christian Denominations

                  Roman Catholic Church

                  Meditations. Devotional readings. Spiritual exercises, etc.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    TREATISE

ON THE

                                  LOVE OF GOD
     __________________________________________________________________

   St. Francis DeSales

  St. Francis de Sales

   1567-1622

   Bishop, Founder of the Visitation

   and Doctor of the Church
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    TREATISE

ON THE

                                  LOVE OF GOD

   By

   St. Francis de Sales

   DOCTOR OF THE CHURCH



   Translated by

  Rev. Henry Benedict Mackey, O.S.B.

   Under the Direction and Patronage of His Lordship the

   Right Rev. John Cuthbert Hedley, O.S.B.

   BISHOP OF NEWPORT




   "A truly admirable book, which has as many admirers of the sweetness of
   its author as it has readers. I have carefully arranged that it shall
   be read throughout our Society, as the universal remedy for all feeble
   ones, the good of slothful ones, the stimulus of love, and the ladder
   of those who are tending to perfection. Oh! that all would study it as
   it deserves! There should be no one to escape its heat."

   --St. Vincent de Paul







   TAN BOOKS AND PUBLISHERS, INC.

   Rockford, Illinois 61105













   Originally published in approximately 1884 by Burns & Oates, Limited,
   London and Benziger Brothers, New York as Volume II of the series
   "Library of St. Francis de Sales." This edition photographically
   reproduced from the Third Edition by arrangement with Burns & Oates.


   Library of Congress Catalog Card No.: 95-60646


   ISBN 0-89555-526-3


   Cover illustration: Portrait of St. Francis de Sales by J. J. Owens
   (early 20th century), based on the Turin portrait. Courtesy of De Sales
   Resource Center, Niagara Falls, New York.


   Printed and bound in the United States of America.










   TAN BOOKS AND PUBLISHERS, INC.

   P.O. Box 424

   Rockford, Illinois 61105

   1997
     __________________________________________________________________

DEDICATION

   I have dedicated this work to the Mother of dilection and to the Father
   of cordial love, as I dedicated the Introduction to the Divine child
   who is the Saviour of lovers and the love of the saved. And as women,
   while they are strong and able to bring forth their children with ease,
   choose commonly their worldly friends to be godfathers, but when their
   feebleness and indisposition make their delivery hard and dangerous
   invoke the Saints of heaven, and vow to have their children stood to by
   some poor body or by some devout soul in the name of S. Joseph, S.
   Francis of Assisi, S. Francis of Paula, S. Nicholas, or some other of
   the blessed, who may obtain of God their safe delivery and that the
   child may be born alive: so I, while I was not yet bishop, having more
   leisure and less fears for my writings, dedicated my little works to
   princes of the earth, but now being weighed down with my charge, and
   having a thousand difficulties in writing, I consecrate all to the
   princes of heaven, that they may obtain for me the light requisite, and
   that if such be the Divine will, these my writings may be fruitful and
   profitable to many.

   Annecy, the day of the most loving Apostles

   S. Peter and S. Paul, 1616.




   BLESSED BE GOD.


   --St. Francis de Sales

   From The Preface (Pages 15-16)





     __________________________________________________________________

TRANSLATOR'S INTRODUCTION.
     __________________________________________________________________


   THE following Treatise presents, at first sight, considerable
   difficulties. They do not arise from any defect in the Saint's mode of
   expression, but are inherent in his subject and manner of treatment,
   "going deep down into the roots" of the Love of God. Thus he speaks in
   his Preface, and continues: "The first four books, and some chapters of
   the others might doubtless have been omitted without disadvantage to
   such souls as seek only the practice of holy love. . . . I have been
   forced to say many things which will appear more obscure than they are.
   The depths of science are always somewhat hard to sound." But he tells
   us that the state of the minds of his age required this deeper
   treatment; and whatever may be thought as to the best way of presenting
   modern religious teaching to an age so ignorant, so shallow and so
   unthinking as is our own with regard to spiritual truths, there can be
   no question that this masterpiece of the chief doctor of ascetic
   theology must not be brought down to our level, but that we must raise
   ourselves towards it. The necessity of giving some explanation of the
   sequence of its doctrine, and of the difficulties which occur, must be
   our chief excuse for daring to place words of ours by the side of this
   finished work of S. Francis de Sales.

   A second reason lies in the fact that the "Treatise on the Love of God"
   was, with others of his writings, the chief subject of the celebrated
   controversy between Fénélon and Bossuet. There can be little doubt that
   this lowered the authority of the work. Not because the mere fact of a
   discussion seemed to throw over it an air of unsafeness or suspicion.
   Descriptions of the sublime and mysterious operations of the soul under
   the influence of grace are always capable of being misunderstood, and
   "wrested" from their proper sense, and no Christian mystic, from S.
   Paul downwards, has escaped this danger. The shameless abuse of the
   Saint's authority by the Jansenists left it eventually quite
   unimpaired. Hence the mistakes of Molinos, Père Lacombe, Madame Guyon,
   and even of Fénélon himself would have thrown no permanent discredit on
   this treatise, if Bossuet had defended it in a proper spirit and with
   full knowledge and discretion. Incredible as the fact may seem, it is
   nevertheless true that neither Fénélon nor Bossuet had properly studied
   the works in dispute. The former went to them prepossessed. His
   opinions were already formed, and he merely sought a confirmation of
   them. He read in a most superficial manner. He precipitately chose out
   what seemed to suit his purpose, and neglected important statements and
   obvious interpretations which were inconsistent with it. He even went
   so far in what must be called a sincere dishonesty of misapprehension,
   as to insist on clinging to mistakes he had fallen into through using
   Bailly's Lyons edition of the "Conferences" (1628), which Bossuet had
   proved to be spurious. Bossuet, on his side, admits that he had not
   previously read it properly, he only studied what seemed necessary to
   answer his opponent, and lacked that high complete knowledge of S.
   Francis's teaching as a whole which was necessary for taking a proper
   view of details and parts. Indeed he only then (1695) began those
   profounder studies of mystic theology which enabled him later to write
   his treatises on matters which to S. Francis, by the experience of
   sanctity more even than by the studies of a lifetime, were as familiar
   as the sights and sounds of home. Hence it came about that while he
   easily justified the teaching of the Saint, he not only failed to give
   the full influence of his genius and authority to unassailably
   establish its triumphant reputation, but on the contrary he
   incidentally disparaged it. He says, for instance: "S. Francis is a
   great saint, and I have always maintained that his doctrine which is
   objected against us is entirely for us as to the matters in question:
   but we must not therefore make him infallible, and it cannot be
   forgotten that he has shown more good intention than knowledge on some
   points." Fortunately Bossuet mentions these points, and the reader
   shall see directly Bossuet's entire misapprehension of the Saint's
   meaning, and meanwhile "it cannot be forgotten" that while Bossuet
   refused the title "infallible" to S. Francis, for whom no one claims
   it, he refused it to the successor of S. Peter to whose office it
   really belongs. Bossuet says further: "According to the spirit of his
   time he had perhaps less read the Fathers than the modern Scholastics."
   Did Bossuet remember that he was speaking of the age of Sirmond, of
   Bellarmine, of Venerable Canisius, and, we may say, of Petavius?
   Francis was a master and a leader of his age, and, as is clear from
   this Treatise alone, was excellently versed both in the Fathers and the
   Scholastics, if any distinction is to be made between them. In
   conclusion, Bossuet presumes to say: "In these places and in some
   others his theology might be more exact and his principles more sure .
   . . . one would not follow him in certain condescensions which I will
   not particularize." In this also it will be shown that Bossuet is most
   unjust, but for the present we may consider that he neutralizes his own
   objection, when in the same sentence he says: "As director of souls he
   is truly sublime." In answer to these attacks, Fénélon gladly changed
   places with Bossuet, but his hasty defence was not so complete as the
   charges were unwarranted and presumptuous. [1]

   We shall briefly touch upon these controverted points as they occur
   among the difficulties of the Treatise. Of these difficulties Book I.
   contains by far the largest proportion, and we will give an abstract of
   this Book sufficiently complete to prevent the necessity, not indeed of
   studying it, but, of a too laborious study. [2]

   In this first Book the Saint treats in general of the will and its
   affections, in particular of its chief affection, love, and of the
   will's natural inclination towards a sovereign love of God.

   The first chapter is to show that the unity required for the beauty of
   that assemblage of perfections called man, lies in this, that all his
   powers are grouped round the will and subordinated to it. Then (c. 2)
   it is shown that the will exercises its authority in different ways,
   according to the different nature of human powers. It governs: (a)
   exterior movements, at its pleasure, like slaves; (b) the senses and
   corporal functions, by a certain management, like horses or hawks; (c)
   the fancy, memory, understanding, by direction and command, like wife
   and children, who are able to disobey if they choose; (d) the sensual
   appetite (c. 3), in the same manner as the last-named; it is still less
   under the will's control, but there is no moral guilt so long as the
   will refuses to consent to or adopt its wrong desires. Then are
   described the twelve movements of this sensual appetite,--viz., desire,
   hatred, hope, &c., which are called perturbations or passions. They are
   all forms of the chief, and, in a sense, the only passion, love. These
   passions are left in man on purpose to exercise his will. A universal
   experience, testified to in effect even by those who pretend to deny
   it, such as the Stoics, proves that these movements are necessary
   qualities of human nature. Love being (c. 4) the root of the others
   their action is good or bad according as the love is rightly or wrongly
   placed. Nay the very will is bad or good according to its love; and its
   supremacy does not lie in this that it can reject all love, but in this
   that it can choose amongst the loves presented to it, by directing the
   understanding to consider one more favourably or more attentively than
   another. In the will, now defined (c. 5) as "the reasonable appetite,"
   there are affections, that is, movements or forms of love, similar to
   the passions of the sensual appetite. Having different and higher
   objects they often run counter to the passions, and the reasonable will
   often forces a soul to remain in circumstances most repugnant to its
   sensual inclinations. These affections or tendencies of the will are
   divided into four classes according to their dignity, that is, the
   dignity of their objects:  1°. Natural affections, where the word
   natural is not used in opposition to supernatural (as in this sense the
   next class would also be natural), but to signify those first and
   spontaneous affections which by the very natural constitution of our
   reason arise from the perception of sensible goods. Indeed the word
   sensible exactly explains his use of the word natural, provided that we
   carefully remember that he is speaking not of the movements of the
   merely sensual appetite or concupiscence which are anterior to reason,
   but of our reasonable and lawful affections for sensible goods. Such
   are the affections we have for health, food, agreeable society.  2°.
   Reasonable affections, where it will now easily be understood that the
   word, which could be applied also to the preceding class, is restricted
   to those which are par excellence reasonable, that is, the affections
   which arise in the spiritual part of reason, from the light of nature
   indeed, but from the higher light of nature--such as the affections for
   the moral virtues.  3°. Christian affections, which spring from the
   consideration of truths of the Christian revelation, such as affections
   for poverty, chastity, heavenly glory.  4°. Divine, or (entirely)
   supernatural affections which God effects in us, and which tend to him
   as known by a light entirely above that of nature. These supernatural
   affections are primarily three: love for the beautiful in the mysteries
   of faith, love for the useful in the promises of hope, and love for the
   sovereign good which is the Divinity.

   The essential supremacy of divine love is proved (c. 6), and there
   follows a wondrous description in four chapters of the nature and
   qualities of love in general. Divine love or charity is not defined
   till chapter 13, and is not specifically described till the last
   chapter of Book II.

   There are (c. 7) five points in the process of love:  1. Natural
   affinity of the will with good.  2. Delectation or complacency in it.
   3. A movement, following this complacency, towards union.  4. Taking
   the means required for union.  5. Union itself. [3] It is in 2 and 3,
   complacency and movement, that love more properly consists, and most
   precisely in 3, the movement or outflowing of heart. Complacency has
   appeared to some to be the really essential point of love, but it is
   not so, because love is a true passion or affection, that is, a
   movement. Complacency spreads the wings, love actually flies. When the
   object loved is present and the lover has but to grasp it, the love is
   called a love of complacency, because complacency has no sooner
   produced the movement of love than it ends in a second complacency.
   When the object is absent, or, like God, not as present as it may
   become, the tending, advancing, aspiring movement is called a love of
   desire, that is, the cupidity of what we have not but hope to have.
   After certain exquisite distinctions between various kinds of desires,
   he returns (c. 8) to the correspondence or affinity with good which is
   the root of love, and which consists not exclusively in resemblance,
   but in a certain relation between things which makes them apt to union
   for their mutual perfection. Finally, coming to union and the means
   thereto, it is exquisitely proved (c. 9) that love tends to union but
   (c. 10) to a spiritual union, and that carnal union, instead of being
   an expression of true love or a help to it, is positively a hindrance,
   a deviation, a degradation.

   The next two chapters (11, 12) treat the important distinction between
   the two parts of the soul, the inferior and the superior. It will clear
   matters to notice that the Saint means the two parts of the reasonable
   soul, and that in the first two paragraphs of chapter 11 he simply says
   that his distinction does not refer to the soul as a mere animating
   principle, or, again, as the principle of that life which man shares
   with plants and animals. He speaks of the human soul as such, that is,
   as having the gift of reason.

   Even the inferior part of the soul truly reasons and wills (so that his
   distinction of inferior and superior is not the distinction between
   concupiscence and reason), but it is inferior because it only reasons
   and wills according to data furnished by the senses: the superior part
   reasons and wills on intellectual and spiritual considerations. But it
   must be noticed that these considerations are not necessarily
   supernatural. The distinction between the inferior and the superior
   part of the reasonable soul is quite independent of revelation: it
   rests on the distinction between what we have called the lower light of
   nature and that higher light which, for instance, heathen philosophers
   used, when, for love of country or moral virtue, they chose to submit
   to sensible pain or even to death which their lower reason would direct
   them to avoid. The existence of this lower reason is clearly shown in
   Our Blessed Saviour's prayer in the garden. Willing and praying are
   acts of reason, yet in this case they were acts of a lower reason which
   Christ permitted to manifest itself, but which had to give way to
   higher considerations.

   Now the inferior part of reason forms by itself one degree of the
   reason, but the superior part has three degrees; in the lowest of which
   we reason according to higher natural light, or as the Saint calls it,
   "human sciences," in the next according to faith, and in the highest we
   do not properly reason, but, "by a simple view of the understanding,
   and simple acquiescence," or assent, "of the will" we correspond with
   God's action, when he spreads faith, hope and charity in this supreme
   point of our reasonable soul. The distinction corresponds exactly with
   that made in chapter 5, into natural, reasonable, Christian and divine.
   The Saint there spoke of affections or tendencies, he here speaks of
   reasonings and willings which are the fulfilment of those tendencies.
   We may remark here, as an instance of the superficial way in which
   Fénélon and Bossuet studied this Treatise, that they take a totally
   different ground of distinction in separating the soul into superior
   and inferior (viz., sensible perception and intellectual cognition),
   and yet do not perceive that they are differing from the Saint. [4] To
   sum up (cc. 11, 12): in man there are some powers altogether below
   reason; and reason, which is of course one and simple in itself, has
   four degrees, according to the rank of the objects presented for its
   consideration and love,--sensible things, spiritual things known by the
   light of nature, spiritual things known by the revelation of Christ,
   and spiritual knowledge communicated by the immediate communication of
   God's light. Between the last and the last but one there is not exactly
   a difference of rank in the objects, but a difference in clearness of
   perception and strength of acceptance.

   Having finished this subject, which is to some extent a digression, the
   Saint returns to the consideration of love, and gives (c. 13) its two
   main divisions,--viz., love of cupidity when we love good for our own
   sake, and love of benevolence when we love good for its sake--i.e. love
   of self-interest and disinterested love. He has already, in chapter 7,
   sub-divided the love of cupidity into love of benevolence and love of
   desire, according as the loved good is present or absent, and now he
   applies the same division and the same ground of division to the love
   of benevolence. This also is either a love of complacency or a love of
   desire according as the good is present to or absent from the person we
   love: we rejoice in the good he already has, we desire him the good he
   has not. This double form of the love of benevolence, besides occurring
   frequently throughout, enters particularly into the structure of Book
   V., and is importantly needed for the full understanding of Book VIII.
   It is necessary here to point out that whereas he has just placed the
   names complacency and desire under the generic head, benevolence, he
   afterwards uses the word benevolence, specifically, instead of desire,
   as if dividing benevolence into complacency, and benevolence proper.
   This use of the word in the sense of desire agrees with its
   etymology,--bene-volentia, bien-veuillance, well-wishing.

   Cupidity alone is exercised in the inferior reason, but in the superior
   reason both find place. The love of God for his own sake which is
   necessary for eternal life belongs exclusively to the supreme degree of
   the superior reason, but the Saint teaches (as Bossuet has clearly
   shown against Fénélon) that there is a reasonable, high love of
   cupidity, that is, a love of God as good to us, even in the highest
   degree and supreme point of the spirit. This indeed is the precise
   motive of Christian hope, which must be kept subordinate to
   disinterested love, but can only be separated from it by abstraction
   and by a non-permanent act.

   The love of benevolence is called friendship when it is mutual. This
   friendship has degrees. When it is beyond all comparison with other
   friendships, supereminent, sovereign, it is called charity--the
   friendship or mutual love of God and man.

   The Saint shows (c. 14.) that to employ the word love instead of
   charity is not against the use of Scripture, and he mentions one reason
   for his preferring the word love which gives us an important help to
   the understanding of the Treatise. It is, he says, because he is
   speaking for the most part not of the habitual charity, or state of
   friendship between God and the soul in grace, but of actual charity,
   that is, of the acts of love which at once express and increase the
   state of charity. Even in the three following books, in which he is
   speaking of the formation, or progress, or loss, of habitual charity,
   he is still chiefly concerned with the acts by which this is done.

   In the remaining four chapters preparation is made for the account of
   the communication of grace and charity to the soul. He shows (c. 15)
   that there is a natural affinity of the soul with its God which is the
   root of love; that thus, by a glorious paradox, God and man need one
   another for their mutual perfection; that we have (c. 16) a natural
   inclination to love God above all things; that (c. 17) we cannot fulfil
   this inclination by natural powers; but (c. 18) that still the
   inclination is not left in our hearts for nothing, as it makes possible
   the communication of grace, and is the handle by which grace takes hold
   of us.

   It is chiefly against these three chapters that Bossuet's
   animadversions are directed. He accuses the Saint of two errors:  1°.
   in saying (p. 61) that God would give grace to one who did his best by
   the forces of nature as certainly as he would give a further grace to
   one who corresponded with a first grace;  2°. of saying (p. 57) that in
   the state of original justice our love of God would not be
   supernatural.

   Fénélon misapprehends the Saint's meaning, and gives a very confused,
   imperfect answer to the two objections. The real answer to the first is
   that Bossuet is quite outside the question. S. Francis is not speaking
   of the step by which a man passes from the natural to the supernatural
   order, but of the process by which his natural inclination to love God
   above all things ripens into that actual love of him above all things
   which belongs still to the natural order. [5]

   Bossuet falls into a somewhat similar error in his second objection. S.
   Francis is considering, separately, the natural love of God which those
   would have who might be in the state of original justice, who would, of
   course, by the very terms, have supernatural love. Not only is
   Bossuet's criticism ridiculously irrelevant, but his language, to ears
   which have heard the Saint declared "Doctor of the Church," sounds
   almost like impertinence. "What," he says, "would this humble servant
   of God have done if it had been represented to him that in the state of
   original justice we should have loved God supernaturally? Would he not
   have confessed that he was forgetting the most essential condition of
   that state?" And it is after these mistakes that Bossuet complacently
   observes: "These opinions rectify themselves in practice when the
   intention is good;" and "In some points his theology might be more
   exact and his principles more sure."

   Book II. describes the generation of charity, which, being
   supernatural, must be created in the soul as a new quality. And after
   two introductory chapters, the remaining twenty are evenly divided
   between the history of the action of God in bestowing, and the action
   of man in appropriating this gift. The two introductory chapters, which
   seem at first sight somewhat foreign to the subject of the book, are
   directed to put steadily and unmistakeably before us the truth that
   when theologians speak of many perfections, many acts, a most various
   order of decrees and execution, this is only according to the human
   method of viewing, and that our God is really but one perfection and
   one act, which is himself. This truth is developed partly also to
   introduce a description of the perfections of the God of whose love the
   Saint is speaking. At the end of the Treatise he refers to these
   chapters as his chief treatment of the chief motive of love--the
   infinite goodness of God in himself.

   After this caution and preface, he begins (c. 3) his account of the
   action of God in the production of charity. He speaks, first, of God's
   providence in general, including under this title his actual providing
   or foreseeing, his creating, and his governance. Then (c. 4) he comes
   to the divine decree to create Christ's Humanity, angels and men for
   him, inferior creatures for men--following here the Scotist teaching
   that Christ would have become man (though of course he would not have
   died) even if Adam had not sinned. God decreed to create angels and man
   in the supernatural state of charity, and, foreseeing that some angels
   and the whole nature or race of man would fall from this state, God
   decreed to condemn the former, but to redeem the latter by his Son's
   death, making the state of redemption a hundred times better than the
   state of innocence. God decreed (c. 6) special favours, such as the
   Immaculate Conception of Mary, for certain rare creatures who were to
   come nearest to his Son, and then for men in general an immense
   abundance and universal showers of grace, an all-illuminating light. He
   gives a whole exquisite chapter (c. 8) to show the sincerity and
   strength of the desire God thus manifests that we should love him, and
   then comes (c. 9) to the effecting this desire by preventing our hearts
   with his grace, taking hold of our natural inclination to love him. We
   can (c. 10) repulse his grace, not because (c. 11) there is anything
   wanting in God's offer, but (c. 12) as an inevitable consequence of our
   having free-will; in case we accept it, we begin to mingle our action
   with God's. Here we must remark that the Saint is not concerned with
   the sacramental action of God which creates or re-creates charity in
   the soul by baptism or penance, still less does he treat the
   semi-miraculous production of charity by Baptism in souls which have
   not yet the use of reason, but he speaks of the intellectual and moral
   process or set of acts by which a soul gifted with the use of reason is
   conducted from infidelity to faith and charity, he treats of the
   justification which is made by love even before the actual reception of
   a Sacrament.

   Our first act under divine inspiration is (c. 13) the consenting to
   those first stirrings of love which God causes in the soul even before
   it has faith. Then (c. 14) comes the production of faith. This may
   follow after argument and the acceptance of the fact of miracles, but
   it is not precisely an effect of these. Such things make truths of
   faith extremely credible, but God alone makes them actually believed.
   And the effect is from God not only in this sense that the extremest
   effort of natural intelligence could not attain to faith, but also
   because a moving of the will is required and is contained in the
   intellectual act of faith itself, what the Saint calls an affectionate
   sentiment of complacency in the beauty and sweetness of the truth
   accepted, so that faith is an acquiescence, an assent, an assurance.
   The Jews saw the force of the argument from Christ's miracles, but they
   did not assent to the conclusion because they loved it not. Hence faith
   includes a certain commencement of love in the will, but a love not as
   yet enough for eternal life.

   Then (cc. 15, 16, 17) comes the production of hope, which brings yet
   closer to charity. As soon as faith shows the divine object of man's
   affections, there arises a movement of complacency and desiring love.
   This desire would be a torment to us unless we had an assurance that we
   might obtain its object. God gives this assurance by his promise, and
   this promise, while it makes desire stronger, causes at the same time a
   sense of calm which the Saint calls the "root" of hope. From it spring
   two movements or acts of the soul, the one by which she expects from
   God the promised happiness, and this is really the chief element of
   hope--esperer, the other by which she excites herself to do all that is
   required on her part--aspirer. This aspiration is the condition but not
   the positive ground of our esperation (to coin a word). That is to say,
   we may not expect the fruition of God except in so far as we have a
   courageous design to do all we can; then, we may infalliby expect it,
   yet still ever from the pure mercy of God. Hope, then, is defined "an
   expecting and aspiring love," or "the loving complacency we take in the
   expecting and seeking our soverign good." It is then a distinct advance
   in love. Faith includes a beginning of love in the movement of the will
   though its real seat is the intelligence; hope is all love, and its
   seat is the will. However hope as such is still insufficient, because,
   however noble, it is a love of cupidity, and not that love of God for
   his own sake which is necessary for eternal life. By it we love God
   sovereignly, because we desire him above all other goods, yet our love
   is not sovereign, because it is not the highest kind of love. The Saint
   is of course speaking of the action of hope before charity. Hope
   remains also after charity, existing, as we have said, in the very
   heights of perfect love, and after charity its acts merit before those
   of every other virtue.

   Then comes the production of penitence or repentance. He distinguishes
   (c. 18) first, a merely human repentance; secondly, a religious
   repentance belonging to the merely natural order; thirdly, a
   supernatural inferior repentance, which (c. 19) is good but
   insufficient; and fourthly (c. 20), perfect repentance, that is, sorrow
   for sin arising from the loving consideration of the sovereignly
   amiable goodness which has been offended thereby. This is not precisely
   charity, because charity is, precisely, a movement towards union,
   whereas repentance is, precisely, a movement of separation (from sin);
   but though it is not precisely charity and therefore has not the
   sweetness of charity, it has the virtue and uniting property of
   charity, because the object of its movement of separation from sin is
   union with God. In practice there is no means, or need, to distinguish,
   because perfect repentance is always immediately followed or preceded
   by charity, or else the one is born within the other.

   The Saint then reminds us (c. 21) that all this has been done by the
   loving action of God's grace, which, after awakening our souls and
   inspiring them to pray has brought them through faith and hope to
   penitence and perfect love. In conclusion (c. 22) he describes charity.

   Book III. treats of the progress and perseverance of the soul in
   charity on earth, and of the perfection of triumphant charity in
   heaven. We have only one remark to make on this book. The Abbé Baudry
   expresses surprise that the Saint when speaking (c. 2) of the increase
   of charity by good works does not mention its increase by the
   Sacraments. But he includes them under the name good-works, and in Book
   IV., c. 4, where he sums up this part of Book III. mentions them
   explicitly. He does not dwell on them because his object in chapter 2
   is to show how easy God has made the increase of charity. He takes
   therefore as his examples the smallest works, such as the giving a cup
   of cold water, and he leaves us to draw the conclusion that the
   faithful and loving reception of God's Sacraments would â fortiori
   increase love. Still it is true that neither here nor elsewhere does he
   treat the Sacraments except quite incidentally, and the explanation of
   this fact gives us a further insight into the true character and object
   of the Treatise. He is concerned with the action of grace in general,
   not with its action by particular means; he is more concerned with the
   interior movements of man under grace than with the effects worked on
   him, as it were from outside; and, as he is treating of actual charity,
   he is more concerned with the good acts for which God gives (whether by
   Sacraments or in any other way) an increase of grace, than he is
   concerned with the actual reception of the grace. We mention this to
   show that one must not be surprised at not finding a fuller treatment
   of, for instance, the Blessed Eucharist. We must also remember that
   this Treatise supposes the "Introduction to a Devout Life" as a
   foundation. And though he only introduces the Sacraments incidentally,
   he does not fail to speak of them frequently, and with such magnificent
   praises as we should expect from the Saint of love. As when he says
   (ii. 22) that the communication of Christ's body and blood is the very
   consummation of the charity he is writing of, and the crown of God's
   love-dealings with us; or as when he says, speaking of the return of
   the penitent soul to reunite herself, immediately, with her God: "Go
   and cry God's mercy in the very ear of your confessor" (ix. 7).

   Book IV. describes the relations of love and sin. The following five
   Books treat of the exercise of benevolence in its generic sense--the
   sovereign love of God for his own sake.

   Book V. treats in general of the double action or manifestation of this
   love,--in complacency, and in benevolence in its specific sense, that
   is, desire.

   Books VI. and VII. treat of union with God by affection, that is, by
   prayer; the former treating of meditation, and of contemplation as far
   as union, the latter of union itself. The various degrees of the prayer
   of quiet are treated in these books, and Quietists bring forward
   passages from them, as from other parts of the Saint's works, in
   support of their extravagant system of annihilation of the powers and
   of purely passive prayer. We have said elsewhere [6] as much as we
   think it necessary to say to overthrow these allegations. But it is
   important to show that Fénélon was utterly wrong in appealing to the
   Saint's authority in support of his erroneous doctrine on this point in
   his "Maximes des Saints." Bossuet has exposed these errors and given a
   full explanation of the passages cited from S. Francis; particularly in
   the 8th and 9th Books of his "Instruction pastorale sur les états
   d'oraison." The Saint expresses in this as in all things the very
   teaching of the Church. He rightly teaches that there is, even short of
   suspension and ecstasy, a kind of prayer in which God takes into his
   own hands the powers of the soul, and produces in it acts far above the
   ordinary operations of faith, hope and charity. When God lifts a soul
   to this prayer, and also to some extent in preparation and expectancy
   of this elevation, the will acts, by a placing of itself (remise) in
   the hands of God, and even continues to act, though insensibly: hence
   the soul is not purely passive, but the action of God is so mighty, and
   so far beyond all proportion to that of the will, that S. Francis says
   this is "as it were passive." And as the soul must offer itself to be
   lifted, and must co-operate with God, therefore also must it help to
   acquire and preserve that "quiet" which is the condition of God's
   operation: it must abstain from intrusive acts of reasoning and from
   other acts of the will, especially from violent ones. But this prayer,
   however frequent, long, uninterrupted, absorbing, it may become, is of
   itself a non-permanent state, and not of the nature of a habit, but is
   always an act of charity. And far from saying that for perfection it is
   necessary to be raised to and to keep oneself in this state, the Saint
   teaches in a hundred places that the soul, however perfect, must
   exercise itself in all ordinary acts of prayer, faith, hope, petition,
   which are only put on one side for the time in which God has raised it.
   The practice of S. Jane Frances, whose authority was invoked even more
   speciously than that of her saintly director by the advocates of
   passive prayer, bears on this. We are told that: "She wrote out and
   signed with her blood a long prayer which she had composed of
   petitions, praises, thanksgivings, for general and particular favours,
   for relations and friends, for the living and the dead, in fine for all
   intentions to which she considered herself obliged, with the Credo of
   the Missal, also signed with her blood. She carried this in a little
   bag night and day round her neck, and she had made a loving covenant
   with Our Lord that whenever she pressed this to her heart she should be
   taken to have made all the acts of faith, the thanks and the petitions
   she had written." [7] And, at last, prayer is not a character of
   perfection, but a means to it, and the two following statements of S.
   Francis in his second Conference absolutely settle the whole question
   as to his teaching. "It happens often enough that Our Lord gives these
   quietudes and tranquillities to souls that are far from perfection." .
   . . . and on the other hand: "There are persons who are very perfect to
   whom Our Lord has never given such sweetnesses nor such quietudes; who
   do all with the superior part of the soul, and make their will die in
   the will of God by main force, and with the supreme point of the
   reason; and this death is the death of the cross, much more excellent
   than that other, which should rather be called a slumber than a death."

   As in treating affective love Book VII. completes Book VI., so in
   treating effective love Book VIII., which treats of obedience to the
   already signified will of God, is completed by Book IX., which treats
   of indifference, or the state of perfect readiness to accept all that
   God's good-pleasure may choose to send us.

   On the doctrine of indifference we venture again to refer the reader to
   our Essay [8] just quoted. We add a few words to show how completely
   Fénélon erred in appealing to this Treatise to support his extravagant
   and condemned propositions that indifference extends to eternal
   salvation as our salvation, and to virtuousness as such. The Saint
   expressly teaches that while God's glory must be our principal end, we
   may, indeed we must--our nature so requires--desire salvation and
   virtue as good also in themselves. Much less can we acquiesce in a
   supposed decree of damnation, with that species of absolute act which
   Fénélon requires as the last test of the disinterestedness of love. [9]
   With regard to eternal salvation, we have only to study the sentiments
   the Saint places in the hearts and mouths of those whose love is
   refined to its highest point at the moment of death (v. 10, vii. 11,
   12). He has a chapter to prove that the preceding desire of heaven
   increases the enjoyment of it (iii. 10); and he teaches that not only
   mercenary hope but also servile fear remain in the soul as part of its
   habit of charity so long as it is in this life (xi. 17). With regard to
   virtues he says (xi. 13): "Let us love the particular virtues, but
   principally because they are agreeable to God;" and: "We must make this
   heavenly good-pleasure the soul of our actions, loving the goodness and
   beauty of virtue principally because it is agreeable to God." Here the
   word "principally" is the key of the whole question.

   Bossuet triumphantly vindicates [10] the Saint's doctrine on
   indifference, but has a very ill-judged criticism on his use of the
   word. He is quite right in saying that indifference is only a degree of
   resignation, but he forgets how far ordinary resignation is below
   indifference. Bossuet gives a full explanation of all the passages
   alleged by Fénélon from S. Francis, but he was hampered, as Fénélon was
   totally misled, by Maupas's erroneous account of S. Francis's famous
   temptation to despair.

   Of the remaining three books, Book X. is dedicated entirely to the
   commandment of loving God above all things; Books XI. arid XII. are on
   the theory and practice of the particular virtues. Indeed it must be
   remembered that the object of the Treatise, even in its speculative
   parts, is exclusively practical. And as we have shown that in its
   theory it is free from error, so we may now be allowed to indicate some
   of its glorious truths, particularly with regard to the practice of
   holy living.

   It is not a book, like other spiritual books, treating only a section
   or a single element of the devout life, but it is one by which and on
   which the whole spiritual life can be formed; it is, with the
   "Introduction to a Devout Life," a perfect book, a "complete food,"
   containing all the ingredients necessary for spiritual sustenance.

   It contains in the first place an immense mass of instruction, dogmatic
   and moral, on the science of the love of God. It treats not only in
   broad outline but also in subtle detail of God and the soul, this world
   and the world to come, grace and free-will, holiness and sin,
   commandments and counsels, ordinary virtue and perfection, all
   questions of prayer; it treats the virtues in detail, not only the
   virtue of charity in all its parts, but also faith, hope and fear,
   zeal, obedience, resignation. The direct course of the Treatise takes
   us through all these, and they are not only treated fully in
   themselves, but so treated as to bring out in illustrating them a
   hundred related truths. A whole theology of Mary might be gathered as
   we pass along; her Immaculate Conception (ii. 3), her graces and
   privileges (iii. 8.; ix. 14.; vii. 13, 14), her praise of God (v. 11),
   her heavenly death (vii. 13, 14). A new light is thrown on the sense of
   Holy Scripture, and on the principles and actions of the Saints.

   But, in the second place, we more particularly wish to point out some
   of his practical principles and rules, the manner of loving and serving
   God. The most important of these is what may be called the Saint's
   general idea or philosophy of life. It begins thus: "We know by faith
   that the divinity is an incomprehensible abyss of all perfection. . . .
   . And this truth which faith teaches we consider attentively by
   meditation, regarding this immensity of goods which are in God. . . . .
   Now when we have made our understanding very attentive to the greatness
   of the goods which are in this divine object, it is impossible that our
   will should not be touched with complacency in this good . . . . and
   especially when we see amidst his perfections that of his infinite love
   excellently shining" (v. 1, 2.). The loving soul does not stay in
   complacency but goes on to benevolence, wishing her God all possible
   goods; but as she is at the very same time exulting in the thought that
   nothing is wanting to him, she can at first but spend herself in
   desiring him what he already has, in desiring to be able to give him
   something, and in praises, ever rising higher and higher until at last
   she finds a sort of rest in the sense that her utter inability to
   desire him anything which he has not, or to praise him fully, is the
   best proof of the infinity of the goods he has. This delight in God and
   these loving desires are an important part of her service, but they
   would be barren if she did not go further. She turns, then, to her own
   powers, and finds that exercising them in herself by internal acts of
   prayer (affective love), and outside herself, amid creatures, by
   external acts of the virtues (effective love), she can increase the
   glory of her beloved, not in itself, but in and by herself. Thus the
   various interior and exterior acts are brought into one, and the soul's
   life consists, on the one hand, in "a continual progress in the sweet
   searching out of motives which may continually urge her" (v. 7), and,
   on the other hand, in acts of prayer, in obedience, and in submission.
   She "employs every occasion," "does everything most perfectly," and, by
   the practice of Intention, Offering, and Ejaculatory Prayer (according
   to methods minutely described in Book XI. 13, 14, 20, and throughout
   Book XII.), subordinates and ranges every interior movement and every
   exterior action to the service of divine love.

   This "view" of life, this continual gazing at the beloved Master for
   whom we work, this regarding the acts of life as a mere series of acts
   or offerings of love, is the very central point of the ascetic teaching
   of S. Francis. It not only gives the nobleness, the intensity, the
   meritoriousness of charity to every act, but it gives also at the same
   time a great simplicity and largeness, preserving the soul from
   formality and from getting lost or wearied in the multitudinous details
   and minute practices of the spiritual life; it creates a loving
   detachment and liberty of spirit, with a readiness to follow every
   slightest indication of God's will. Finally, it gives order to our
   various duties. For instance, it puts in their proper place, in serene
   majesty above the cavils of worldlings, the works of religion and
   "piety." These are the immediate services of the beloved, the first
   effects of charity, and therefore charity itself teaches that: "Amongst
   all virtuous actions we should carefully practise those of religion and
   reverence to divine things, those of faith, hope and the most holy fear
   of God;--often talking of heavenly things, thinking of and aspiring
   after eternity, frequenting churches and holy services, reading
   spiritual books, observing the ceremonies of the Christian religion;
   for holy love feeds at will amid these exercises, and spreads its
   graces and properties more abundantly over them than over the simply
   human virtues" (xi. 3). Yet there is no fanaticism. The human virtues
   find their proper place at the proper time, and, inferior in
   themselves, are raised by love, that is, by the fact that for the time
   they are the will of God, to the highest rank in the eyes of the loving
   soul,--"For in little and low exercises, charity is practised not only
   more frequently, but also as a rule more humbly, and therefore more
   profitably and more holily" (xii. 6). He has two glorious chapters on
   the truth that legitimate occupations, be they even in court or camp,
   hinder not the practice of divine love. "Curiosity, ambition, disquiet,
   together with inadvertence to, or not considering, the end for which we
   are in this world, are the causes why we have a hundred times more
   hindrances than affairs; and it is these embarrassments, that is, the
   silly, vain, superfluous undertakings with which we charge ourselves
   that turn us from the love of God, and not the true and lawful exercise
   of our vocations" (xii. 4.). In the one great principle of doing all
   for love we have signalized two conditions or negative aspects of the
   same.  1°. The intellect must be kept "very attentive." As the Saint
   says in the "Introduction to a Devout Life" (v. 17), so here,
   consideration "is supposed throughout the entire work," the whole
   edifice is built on it, and therefore the want of it,
   "inconsidération," is the ruin of the whole spiritual life (xi. 7.)
   This "consideration" need not be called by the alarming name of mental
   prayer, but whatever it is called it consists in a most serious
   attention to spiritual truths according to the capacity of the
   individual: there must be one great esteem, and therefore the energy of
   the intellect cannot be given primarily to anything else. So (2°) in
   the will, there must be but one great affection, one aim, one
   desire--"One to one." "The desire of exalting God separates from
   inferior pleasures" (v. 7); and: "to have the desire of sacred love we
   must cut off other desires" (xii. 3). "Those souls who ever abound in
   desires, designs and projects never desire holy celestial love as they
   ought:" "He who aspires to heavenly love must carefully reserve for it
   his leisure, his spirit, and his affections:"--words which should be
   written in letters of flame for the guidance of such as seek the right
   way to perfection.

   We will not stay to give examples of his more particular principles
   with regard to prayer, but we select a few with regard to the virtues.
   The truly loving heart not only observes the commandments, but loves
   the observance, of them (viii. 5). "Inclination is neither vice nor
   virtue. . . . . How many by natural disposition are sober, simple,
   silent, even chaste? All this seems to be virtue, but it is not, until
   on such natural humours we have grafted free and voluntary consent:"
   The whole chapter "On the imperfection of the virtues of the pagans"
   (xi. 7.) is of the most practical importance at the present day. The
   general, but surely most constraining, principle of
   mortification,--that other pleasures and other desires must be put down
   for the sake of divine love,--is applied to the interior in such more
   particular methods as this:--irregular affections can be put down
   either on the principle of curing contraries by contraries, or on the
   principle of curing likes by likes: the inclination to trust in earthly
   things may be overcome either by thinking of the vanity of earthly
   hopes or of the solidity of heavenly hopes; desire of riches or of
   sensual pleasure may be kept down either by the contempt of them or by
   the esteem of heavenly goods, "as fire is extinguished either by water
   or by lightning" (xi. 20). It is applied to the exterior thus: "It is
   useless to give orders of abstinence to the palate, but the hands must
   be ordered to furnish the mouth with meat and drink only in such and
   such a measure. . . . . If we desire our eyes not to see we must turn
   them away, or (he has just compared our sensual appetite to a hawk)
   cover them with their natural hood . . . . it would be folly to command
   a horse not to wax fat, not to grow, not to kick,--to effect all this,
   stop his corn" (i. 2). In this connection, and to show how beautiful,
   how consistent, and how feasible his teaching is, it should be studied
   with his life, as his life should be explained by his teaching. That
   his extraordinary and almost unreasonable meekness sprang from no
   weakness or ignorance, but was founded on the deepest wisdom and
   sincere humility, we realize when we study his teaching (x.) on zeal
   and anger. His extremely affectionate expressions towards his friends
   find their justification in the truth that "the union to which love
   aspires is spiritual" (i. 10). The ground of his missionary spirit and
   life is found in v. 9, and the whole work is the explanation of his
   absolute devotion of himself to the loving service of God and his
   neighbour.

   In the third place, the Treatise contains a full exposition of the
   motives for serving God, the why of a spiritual life. This is all
   reduced to the one great motive of the infinite perfections--especially
   the amiableness, the love, the goodness of God--brought before us in a
   hundred ways. His mere descriptions are enough to bring home this
   motive to the heart that reads them with attention, but the Saint
   himself puts them together (xii., 11, 12) with the exact method of
   applying them. But besides the direct treatment of the motives, the
   Treatise is pervaded by a heavenly persuasive unction, which ever urges
   them. This is why S. Vincent calls it "the goad of the slothful and the
   stimulus of love." While S. Francis seems only to be making us clearly
   understand what virtue is, he at the same time makes us esteem and love
   it; his reasons for loving God and practising virtue are not cold, dry
   logic, but reach the heart, and command assent; and while he is
   apparently only fixing our attention on the way to practise virtue he
   is at the same time gently but effectively touching the springs of the
   will to make us love and prepare to effect it. But besides this
   continual stimulation he has direct exhortations; he stops, as it were,
   in his course to preach. One chapter is headed: "An exhortation to the
   amorous submission which we owe to the decrees of divine Providence"
   (iv. 8). Another is his exposition of S. Paul's,--"The charity of
   Christ presseth us." Another--"An exhortation to the sacrifice we ought
   to make to God of our free-will" (xii. 10). And other chapters, though
   not precisely in the form of exhortations, contain the virtue of them.
   Such are the chapters "On condolence and complacency in the Passion of
   Our Lord" (v. 5); on the "Marvellous history of a gentleman who died of
   love on Mount Olivet" (vii. 12); and the last chapter of all: "That
   Mount Calvary is the true academy of love."

   But, in the fourth place, this Treatise is not only a manual and a
   guide to perfection, but it is also a meditation-book, and a
   prayer-book. In such chapters as those just mentioned the devout soul
   will find all the materials of most excellent meditations;--not only
   deep pregnant thoughts, but also a very fountain of affections and
   ejaculations, most pressing movements of the will, and most effective
   resolutions. The summing up of motives, and method of using them is
   already in the very form of meditation. But almost every chapter could
   be used as such. For instance, if one wished to strengthen the
   groundwork of love--the realization of the perfections of God--after
   thinking out Book v. cc. 1. 2., he could add Book i. cc. 15, 18, Book
   ii. cc. 1, 2, 8, 15, 22, and Book iii. cc. 11, 12, 13. This Book III.
   furnishes grand meditations on heaven, and every Book is full of the
   excellences of charity, than which no consideration could be more
   touching or more practical.

   Then, the Treatise is a prayer-book. Very frequently the Saint ends his
   chapter with an exquisite prayer, himself giving the expression of the
   ardours with which he has filled our hearts. All Book V. is a
   prayer;--for instance, c. 5 on the Passion, c. 6 on Desires. Profound
   dogma, having permeated the intellect, exhales itself, as it were, to
   God on the apex of the spirit in such burning words as his--"Ah! then I
   am not made for this world, &c." (i. 15), or--"Ah! Jesus, who will give
   me grace to be one single spirit with thee, &c!" (vii. 3.)

   We have now to speak of our text and rendering. We have followed the
   text of Vivès's edition of the "OEuvres Complètes," which, with a
   little improvement from subsequent editions, is a reproduction of the
   original work, published at Lyons by Rigaud in 1616. We therefore
   follow in our quotations the spelling and accentuation of the old
   French. We have of course used the ordinary Catholic translation of the
   Bible, except where the Saint leaves the Vulgate for the Septuagint or
   the Hebrew, which he occasionally does, not, as he says, to get the
   true sense, but "to explain and confirm the true sense." We have
   consulted the originals for the citations from the Fathers, but the
   Saint himself quotes them with a certain freedom, and we have not
   thought it necessary to give the exact references, as the student can
   easily find them in Vivès or Migne. It has been decided to omit or
   modify in this popular edition a few sentences in which the Saint
   refers to certain delicate matters--in particular to certain Bible
   narratives which to his original readers were matters of familiar
   knowledge--with the happy simplicity of his day. As he says in his
   Preface, "it is of extreme importance to remember the age in which one
   writes," and there can be no doubt that if he had been writing for this
   age he would have consulted its requirements, and would have conformed
   to the universal practice of modern spiritual writers by forbearing
   reference to these subjects. He only introduces them incidentally and
   merely for the purpose of illustrating his main argument. The omissions
   or alterations taken altogether would not amount to more than two
   pages. [11]

   We are acquainted with only two English versions of the Treatise. The
   first was made by Father Car, from the eighteenth French edition, [12]
   and we had at first intended to take this as the basis of ours; but
   when we came to actually test it by the original, we determined to make
   our translation completely independent of it, and in many parts we did
   not refer to it at all. As to the substance of the work it is
   satisfactory; though there are many slight omissions, and a few
   somewhat serious mistakes. As to style, taken by itself, it is a good
   and a very interesting specimen of the racy, vigorous English of that
   day; but taken as a translation, the rendering is unwarrantably free,
   and Father Car's manner is far too rugged to represent that of the
   Saint, which is always graceful and flowing, even when the thought is
   closest and the passion strongest. Father Car gives the structure
   correctly, but his manipulation of conjunctions and adverbs,
   particularly in the more argumentative parts, is painfully cumbrous. We
   should expect his diction to be archaic, but some of his words are
   quite obsolete [13] . He is occasionally mistaken in his use of words,
   as when he translates bonté, "bounty," instead of "goodness;" he makes
   curious mistakes in words which are spelt nearly alike. [14] We have
   laboured to preserve his delightful air of antiqueness, which is
   singularly appropriate to the Saint's work.

   The modern English translation, which was made, we believe, early in
   the present century by an Irish lady, and which has been reprinted by
   various publishers, is not worth criticizing. It is not so much a
   translation as a very bad adaptation. A good deal of the substance of
   the book is left out, and the translator, who was not properly
   acquainted either with the Saint's language or her own, substitutes her
   style for his. We have no hesitation in saying that there is not a page
   without important errors on commission or omission.

   We may add a few words on our own work. It is sometimes said that a
   translation should read as if it were composed in the language in which
   it appears, and, again, that a translator must not attend immediately
   to the words of his text, but must, in the first place, aim at
   producing the same impression on the minds of his readers as the author
   would produce on the minds of those for whom he originally wrote. We
   cannot but consider both these rules or principles to be fallacious. A
   Frenchman, for instance, is different from an Englishman, and there are
   many words which necessarily make a very different impression,
   according as they fall on a French or on an English mind. So, again,
   the French tongue has national peculiarities and differences which an
   English translator may not ignore, but which he cannot represent in
   strict accordance with the genius of his own tongue. S. Francis's work
   would have been totally different, both in itself and in its effect, if
   he had been an Englishman writing for his countrymen in their native
   language. The most that a translator can do is to put the foreign
   reader in as good a position as he would be in if he had a familiar
   knowledge of the original. When an Englishman having a familiar
   knowledge of French reads a book written in that language, he does not
   indeed usually advert to the expression therein of the national
   characteristics--vivacity, use of gesture, frequent expression of
   emotion, strong sense of personality--because he has for the time put
   on his French form of mind, but there is certainly a latent sense of
   foreignness, of which he becomes conscious when these peculiarities are
   exaggerated, as in such a writer as Victor Hugo.

   We say this in explanation of the general structure of the work, which
   could not be altered without being revolutionized, but as regards
   particular words and phrases, we have tried our best to spare our
   readers the disagreeable jar which is caused by the introduction of a
   foreign idiom. In this matter the Treatise presents less difficulty
   than is found in the more colloquial writings, because its argument is
   very substantial, and its text largely consists of quotations from the
   Holy Scriptures, the Fathers, and philosophers. The difficulty lies
   deeper, and one must be extremely careful, in obliterating Gallicisms,
   not to injure or destroy what belongs to the very texture of the style.
   S. Francis's work cannot be made to read as easily as do the empty,
   superficial writings of the day, or to appear in a spick-and-span
   modern English dress. He is a classic, he is a master of thought,
   having his individual characteristics, who wrote scientifically on
   profoundest religious truths three ages back.

   His style is old-world, antique. Words with him have more of their
   fresh native simplicity than they now retain after having done service
   for three hundred years. Some of them he was the first to bring out of
   their classic use into modern circulation. Hence, we make no difficulty
   in using such words as "contemplation," "sensible," "civil," in their
   original and more proper sense, as English religious writers of his
   age--Hooker, Taylor or Milton--used them.

   Again, he is scientific--theological and philosophical. He writes a
   Treatise. The world, which is only interested in its own matters, will
   not admit the rights of the scientific writer on religion. Catholics of
   the English-speaking race are placed at a double disadvantage, on
   account of the small proportion their numbers bear to the mass of their
   countrymen. But surely we are not to acquiesce in allowing terms to be
   prohibited which are necessary or useful for properly and safely
   expressing the distinctive truths of our religion: there is an interest
   at stake not merely literary, but religious, and also patriotic. We
   claim, therefore, the right to use, for instance, the words "religion,"
   "religious," "professed," in our technical Catholic sense, for the
   state and the persons of those who have bound themselves to the service
   of God by vow.

   S. Francis also had his special characteristics, which, therefore, are
   not French but Salesian. He was slightly old-fashioned, even in his own
   time. He was a patriarch of French literature, and devoted, in language
   as in other things, to the old times, though so glorious a pioneer of
   the new. He is simple in expression amongst the simple. But each word
   is charged with thought and reflection, and sometimes an exclamation
   which one might at first be tempted to suppress as a French
   superfluity, turns out to be a "word," and welded into the substance of
   the phrase. He was a Saint, also, and what would be an exclamation in
   others is an ejaculation in him.

   But, after all, our object is devotional and not literary; we are far
   from wishing to indulge any literary fancies or crotchets and have no
   intention of straining our principles of translation. Our one aim is to
   make the true teachings of S. Francis de Sales accessible, profitable,
   and attractive to English readers, and so to contribute our poor
   efforts to advance the divine Art of Holy Loving.



   Weobley,

   Feast of our most holy Father S. Benedict, 1884.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1] For our authorities and full information on this important
   controversy we refer our readers to the admirable "Dissertation," by
   Baudry, in the supplementary volume (ix.) of Migne's edition of the
   "Works of S. Francis and S. Jane Frances." There is an anonymous
   dissertation in vol. vi. which bears on the same subject.

   [2] The following part of our Introduction--viz., the analysis of Books
   i., ii., will probably be found more intelligible and useful after
   reading the Saint's text.

   [3] This division is the connecting chain of the whole Treatise, and it
   will be found that each Book treats of one or more of its parts. Thus
   the three following Books are on point 3, Book v. on point 2, Books
   vi.-ix. on points 4 and 5 (viz., union by affective and by effective
   love), x.-xii. on point 3.

   [4] Certain expressions on p. 50 require explanation. It is there said
   that in the superior part of the soul there are two degrees of
   reason--the answer is that the Saint for the moment puts out of
   consideration the lowest degree of the higher reason, and concerns
   himself with the two supernatural degrees. And a little lower down he
   speaks of the action of faith "in the inferior part of the soul," but
   he really means in the lower one of the two highest degrees.

   [5] It is true that elsewhere (Book iv. c. v.) S. Francis says, after
   S. Thomas and S. Francis Xavier, that God is sure to give grace to
   those who fulfil the natural law, but, since in the state of fallen
   nature the natural law itself cannot be fully observed without grace,
   there is already supposed in the hearts of such persons the existence
   of grace which draws the further grace. This the Saint expressly states
   (xi. 1).

   [6] "Four Essays on the Life and Writings of S. Francis de Sales,"
   Essay III. p. 88.

   [7] From her life by Maupas, quoted by Bossuet in the "Instr. Past. sur
   les états d'oraison," viii.

   [8] Pp. 82-4.

   [9] The Saint is careful to qualify any ambiguous statement (as in ix.
   4) by declaring that he speaks "par imagination de chose impossible."

   [10] In the same "Instruction, &c."

   [11] They occur in i. 5, 10; iv. 10; v. 1; vi. 15; vii. 1; viii. 1; ix.
   10; x. 7, 9; xi. 4, 10, 11, 14.

   [12] "A Treatise of the Love of God." Written in French by B. Francis
   de Sales, Bishope and Prince of Geneva. Translated into English by
   Miles Car, priest of the English Colledge of Doway. The eighteenth
   edition. Printed at Doway by Gerard Pinchon, at the sign of Coleyn,
   1630.

   [13] We would gladly have reintroduced such a fine old word as "yert,"
   which represents the now untranslateable eslan or eslancement.

   [14] For instance nuisance as if it were naissance; jeusnes et veilles,
   as if they were jeunes et vieilles.
     __________________________________________________________________

TABLE OF CONTENTS.
     __________________________________________________________________


   PAGE
   Translator's Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . .
                                                                          vii
     __________________________________________________________________

   The Author's Dedicatory Prayer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1
   The Preface. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          3

   BOOK I.
   CONTAINING A PREPARATION FOR THE WHOLE TREATISE.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   That for the beauty of human nature God has given the government of all
   the faculties of the soul to the will. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . .
   17
   II.

   How the will variously governs the powers of the soul. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   19
   III.

   How the will governs the sensual appetite. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   21
   IV.

   That love rules over all the affections and passions, and even governs
   the will, although the will has also a dominion over it. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   24
   V.

   Of the affections of the will. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
   26
   VI.

   How the love of God has dominion over other loves. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   29
   VII.

   Description of love in general. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
   30
   VIII.

   What kind of affinity (convenance) it is which excites love. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   35
   IX.

   That love tends to union. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . .
   37
   X.

   That the union to which love aspires is spiritual. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   39
   XI.

   That there are two portions in the soul, and how. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   45
   XII.

   That in these two portions of the soul there are four different degrees
   of reason. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   48
   XIII.

   On the difference of loves. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . .
   51
   XIV.

   That charity may be named love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
   52
   XV.

   Of the affinity there is between God and man. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   54
   XVI.

   That we have a natural inclination to love God above all things. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   56

XVII.

       That we have not naturally the power to love God above all things. . .
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                              58
XVIII.

       That the natural inclination which we have to love God is not useless.
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                              61

   BOOK II.
   THE HISTORY OF THE GENERATION AND HEAVENLY BIRTH OF DIVINE LOVE.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   That the divine perfections are only a single but infinite perfection.
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   63
   II.

   That in God there is but one only act, which is his own divinity. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   66
   III.

   Of the divine providence in general. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   69
   IV.

   Of the supernatural providence which God uses towards reasonable
   creatures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   73
   V.

   That heavenly providence has provided men with a most abundant
   redemption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   76
   VI.

   Of certain special favours exercised by the divine providence in the
   redemption of man. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
   78
   VII.

   How admirable the divine providence is in the diversity of graces given
   to men. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   81
   VIII.

   How much God desires we should love him. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   83
   IX.

   How the eternal love of God prevents our hearts with his inspirations
   in order that we may love him. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
   86
   X.

   How we oftentimes repulse the inspiration, and refuse to love God. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   89
   XI.

   That it is no fault of the divine goodness if we have not a most
   excellent love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   91
   XII.

   That divine inspirations leave us in full liberty to follow or repulse
   them. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   94
   XIII.

   Of the first sentiments of love which divine inspirations cause in the
   soul before she has faith. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . .
   98
   XIV.

   Of the sentiment of the divine love which is had by faith. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   101
   XV.

   Of the great sentiment of love which we receive by holy hope. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   104
   XVI.

   How love is practised in hope. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
   106
   XVII.

   That the love which is in hope is very good, though imperfect. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   109
   XVIII.

   That love is exercised in penitence, and first, that there are divers
   sorts of penitence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
   112

XIX.

      That penitence without love is imperfect. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             115
XX.

      How the mingling of love and sorrow takes place in contrition. . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             117
XXI.

      How our Saviour's loving attractions assist and accompany us to faith
      and charity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             121
XXII.

      A short description of charity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
                                                                             124

   BOOK III.
   OF THE PROGRESS AND PERFECTION OF LOVE.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   That holy love may be augmented still more and more in everyone of us.
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   127
   II.

   How easy our Saviour has made the increase of love. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   129
   III.

   How a soul in charity makes progress in it. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   132
   IV.

   Of holy perseverance in sacred love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   138
   V.

   That the happiness of dying in heavenly charity is a special gift of
   God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   141
   VI.

   That we cannot attain to perfect union with God in this mortal life. .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   143
   VII.

   That the charity of saints in this mortal life equals, yea sometimes
   surpasses, that of the blessed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
   145
   VIII.

   Of the incomparable love which the Mother of God, our Blessed Lady,
   had. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   147
   IX.

   A preparation for the discourse on the union of the blessed with God. .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   150
   X.

   That the preceding desire will much increase the union of the blessed
   with God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   153
   XI.

   Of the union of the blessed spirits with God, in the vision of the
   Divinity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   154
   XII.

   Of the eternal union of the blessed spirits with God, in the vision of
   the eternal birth of the Son of God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   157
   XIII.

   Of the union of the blessed with God in the vision of the production of
   the Holy Ghost. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   159
   XIV.

   That the holy light of glory will serve for the union of the blessed
   spirits with God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   161
   XV.

   That there shall be different degrees of the union of the blessed with
   God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   163

   BOOK IV.
   OF THE DECAY AND RUIN OF CHARITY.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   That as long as we are in this mortal life we may lose the love of God.
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   165
   II.

   How the soul grows cold in holy love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   168
   III.

   How we forsake divine love for that of creatures. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   171
   IV.

   That heavenly love is lost in a moment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . .
   174
   V.

   That the sole cause of the decay and cooling of charity is in the
   creature's will. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   176
   VI.

   That we ought to acknowledge all the love we bear to God to be from
   God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   178
   VII.

   That we must avoid all curiosity, and humbly acquiesce in God's most
   wise providence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   182
   VIII.

   An exhortation to the amorous submission which we owe to the decrees of
   divine providence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
   186
   IX.

   Of a certain remainder of love that oftentimes rests in the soul that
   has lost holy charity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . .
   189
   X.

   How dangerous this imperfect love is. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   192
   XI.

   A means to discern this imperfect love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . .
   193

   BOOK V.
   OF THE TWO PRINCIPAL EXERCISES OF HOLY LOVE WHICH CONSIST IN
   COMPLACENCY AND BENEVOLENCE.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   Of the sacred complacency of love; and first of what it consists. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   196
   II.

   How by holy complacency we are made as little infants at our Saviour's
   breasts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   199
   III.

   That holy complacency gives our heart to God, and makes us feel a
   perpetual desire in fruition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . .
   203
   IV.

   Of the loving condolence by which the complacency of love is still
   better declared. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   207
   V.

   Of the condolence and complacency of love in the Passion of our Lord. .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   210
   VI.

   Of the love of benevolence which we exercise towards our Saviour by way
   of desire. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   212
   VII.

   How the desire to exalt and magnify God separates us from inferior
   pleasures, and makes us attentive to the divine perfections. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   215

VIII.

      How holy benevolence produces the praise of the divine well-beloved. .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             217
IX.

      How benevolence makes us call all creatures to the praise of God. . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             220
X.

      How the desire to praise God makes us aspire to heaven. . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             222
XI.

      How we practise the love of benevolence in the praises which our
      Saviour and his Mother give to God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             224
XII.

      Of the sovereign praise which God gives unto himself, and how we
      exercise benevolence in it. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . .
                                                                             228

   BOOK VI.
   OF THE EXERCISES OF HOLY LOVE IN PRAYER.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   A description of mystical theology, which is no other thing than
   prayer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   231
   II.

   Of meditation--the first degree of prayer or mystical theology. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   235
   III.

   A description of contemplation, and of the first difference that there
   is between it and meditation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . .
   239
   IV.

   That love in this life takes its origin but not its excellence from the
   knowledge of God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   241
   V.

   The second difference between meditation and contemplation. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   244
   VI.

   That contemplation is made without labour, which is the third
   difference between it and meditation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   247
   VII.

   Of the loving recollection of the soul in contemplation. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   251
   VIII.

   Of the repose of a soul recollected in her well-beloved. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   254
   IX.

   How this sacred repose is practised. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   257
   X.

   Of various degrees of this repose, and how it is to be preserved. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   259
   XI.

   A continuation of the discourse touching the various degrees of holy
   quiet, and of an excellent abnegation of self which is sometimes
   practised therein. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
   261
   XII.

   Of the outflowing (escoulement) or liquefaction of the soul in God. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   265
   XIII.

   Of the wound of love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . .
   268
   XIV.

   Of some other means by which holy love wounds the heart. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   272
   XV.

   Of the affectionate languishing of the heart wounded with love. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   275

   BOOK VII.
   OF THE UNION OF THE SOUL WITH HER GOD, WHICH IS PERFECTED IN PRAYER.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   How love effects the union of the soul with God in prayer. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   281
   II.

   Of the various degrees of the holy union which is made in prayer. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   286
   III.

   Of the sovereign degree of union by suspension and ravishment. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   289
   IV.

   Of rapture, and of the first species of it. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   294
   V.

   Of the second species of rapture. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . .
   295
   VI.

   Of the signs of good rapture, and of the third species of the same. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   298
   VII.

   How love is the life of the soul, and continuation of the discourse on
   the ecstatic life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
   301
   VIII.

   An admirable exhortation of S. Paul to the ecstatic and superhuman
   life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   304
   IX.

   Of the supreme effect of affective love, which is the death of the
   lovers; and first, of such as died in love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   307
   X.

   Of those who died by and for divine love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   310
   XI.

   How some of the heavenly lovers died also of love. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   311
   XII.

   Marvellous history of the death of a gentleman who died of love on
   Mount Olivet. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   314
   XIII.

   That the most sacred Virgin Mother of God died of love for her son. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   318
   XIV.

   That the glorious Virgin died by an extremely sweet and tranquil death.
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   321

   BOOK VIII.

   OF THE LOVE OF CONFORMITY, BY WHICH WE UNITE OUR WILL TO THE WILL OF
   GOD, SIGNIFIED UNTO US BY HIS COMMANDMENTS, COUNSELS AND INSPIRATIONS.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   Of the love of conformity proceeding from sacred complacency. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   325
   II.

   Of the conformity of submission which proceeds from the love of
   benevolence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   327
   III.

   How we are to conform ourselves to that divine will, which is called
   the signified will. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
   329

IV.

      Of the conformity of our will to the will which God has to save us. . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             332
V.

      Of the conformity of our will to that will of God's which is signified
      to us by his commandments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . .
                                                                             334
VI.

      Of the conformity of our will to that will of God which is signified
      unto us by his counsels. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . .
                                                                             337
VII.

      That the love of God's will signified in the commandments moves us to
      the love of the counsels. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . .
                                                                             340
VIII.

      That the contempt of the evangelical counsels is a great sin. . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             343
IX.

      A continuation of the preceding discourse. How every one, while bound
      to love, is not bound to practise, all the evangelical counsels, and
      yet how every one should practise what he is able. . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             346
X.

      How we are to conform ourselves to God's will signified unto us by
      inspirations, and first, of the variety of the means by which God
      inspires us. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             349
XI.

      Of the union of our will with God's in the inspirations which are given
      for the extraordinary practice of virtues; and of perseverance in one's
      vocation, the first mark of inspiration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             352
XII.

      Of the union of man's will with God's in those inspirations which are
      contrary to ordinary laws; and of peace and tranquillity of heart,
      second mark of inspiration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . .
                                                                             356
XIII.

      Third mark of inspiration, which is holy obedience to the Church and
      superiors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             359
XIV.

      A short method to know God's will.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             362

   BOOK IX.
   OF THE LOVE OF SUBMISSION, WEREBY OUR WILL IS UNITED TO GOD'S
   GOOD-PLEASURE.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   Of the union of our will to that divine will which is called the will
   of good-pleasure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   365
   II.

   That the union of our will with the good-pleasure of God takes place
   principally in tribulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . .
   367
   III.

   Of the Union of our will to the divine good-pleasure in spiritual
   afflictions, by resignation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . .
   371
   IV.

   Of the union of our will to the good-pleasure of God by indifference. .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   373
   V.

   That holy indifference extends to all things. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   375

VI.

      Of the practice of loving indifference, in things belonging to the
      service of God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             377
VII.

      Of the indifference we are to have as to our advancement in virtues. .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             381
VIII.

      How we are to unite our will with God's in the permission of sins . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             385
IX.

      How the purity of indifference is to be practised in the actions of
      sacred love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             388
X.

      Means to discover when we change in the matter of this holy love. . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             390
XI.

      Of the perplexity of a heart which loves without knowing whether it
      pleases the beloved. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . .
                                                                             392
XII.

      How the soul amidst these interior anguishes knows not the love she
      bears to God: and of the most lovefull death of the will. . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             395
XIII.

      How the will being dead to itself lives entirely in God's will. . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             398
XIV.

      An explanation of what has been said touching the decease of our will.
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             400
XV.

      Of the most excellent exercise we can make in the interior and exterior
      troubles of this life, after attaining the indifference and death of
      the will. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             403
XVI.

      Of the perfect stripping of the soul which is united to God's will. . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             406

   BOOK X.
   OF THE COMMANDMENT OF LOVING GOD ABOVE ALL THINGS.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   Of the sweetness of the commandment which God has given us of loving
   him above all things. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . .
   410
   II.

   That this divine commandment of love tends to heaven, yet is given to
   the faithful in this world. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . .
   413
   III.

   How, while the whole heart is employed in sacred love, yet one may love
   God in various ways, and also many other things together with him. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   414
   IV.

   Of two degrees of perfection with which this commandment may be kept in
   this mortal life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   418
   V.

   Of two other degrees of greater perfection, by which we may love God
   above all things. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .
   421
   VI.

   That the love of God above all things is common to all lovers. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   425
   VII.

   Explanation of the preceding chapter. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   427

VIII.

      A memorable history to make clearly understood in what the force and
      excellence of holy love consist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             430
IX.

      A confirmation of what has been said by a noteworthy comparison. . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             434
X.

      That we are to love the divine goodness sovereignly above ourselves. .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             437
XI.

      How holy charity produces the love of our neighbour. . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             440
XII.

      How love produces zeal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . .
                                                                             442
XIII.

      How God is jealous of us. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . .
                                                                             444
XIV.

      Of the zeal or jealousy which we have for our Lord. . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             448
XV.

      Advice for the direction of holy zeal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             451
XVI.

      That the example of certain saints who seem to have exercised their
      zeal with anger, makes nothing against the doctrine of the preceding
      chapter. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             455
XVII.

      How our Lord practised all the most excellent acts of love. . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                             460

   BOOK XI.

   OF THE SOVEREIGN AUTHORITY WHICH SACRED LOVE HOLDS OVER ALL THE
   VIRTUES, ACTIONS AND PERFECTIONS OF THE SOUL.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   How agreeable all virtues are to God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   464
   II.

   That divine love makes the virtues immeasurably more agreeable to God
   than they are of their own nature. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . .
   467
   III.

   That there are some virtues which divine love raises to a higher degree
   of excellence than others. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . .
   470
   IV.

   That divine love more excellently sanctifies the virtues when they are
   practised by its order and commandment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . .
   472
   V.

   How love spreads its excellence over the other virtues, perfecting
   their particular excellence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . .
   475
   VI.

   Of the excellent value which sacred love gives to the actions which
   issue from itself, and to those which proceed from the other virtues. .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   478
   VII.

   That perfect virtues are never one without the other. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   481
   VIII.

   How charity comprehends all the virtues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   485
   IX.

   That the virtues have their perfection from divine love. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   489
   X.

   A digression upon the imperfection of the virtues of the pagans. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   491
   XI.

   How human actions are without worth when they are done without divine
   love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   496

   XII.

   How holy love returning into the soul, brings back to life all the
   works which sin had destroyed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
   499
   XIII.

   How we are to reduce all the exercise of the virtues, and all our
   actions to holy love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . .
   503
   XIV.

   The practice of what has been said in the preceding chapter. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   506
   XV.

   How charity contains in it the gifts of the Holy Ghost. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   509
   XVI.

   Of the loving fear of spouses; a continuation of the same subject. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   511
   XVII.

   How servile fear remains together with holy love. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   514
   XVIII.

   How love makes use of natural, servile and mercenary fear. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   516
   XIX.

   How sacred love contains the twelve fruits of the Holy Ghost, together
   with the eight beatitudes of the Gospel. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   521
   XX.

   How divine love makes use of all the passions and affections of the
   soul, and reduces them to its obedience. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   524
   XXI.

   That sadness is almost always useless, yea contrary to the service of
   holy love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   528

   BOOK XII.
   CONTAINING CERTAIN COUNSELS FOR THE PROGRESS OF THE SOUL IN HOLY LOVE.
   CHAP. PAGE
   I.

   That our progress in holy love does not depend on our natural
   temperament. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   533
   II.

   That we are to have a continual desire to love. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   534
   III.

   That to have the desire of sacred love we are to cut off all other
   desires. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   536
   IV.

   That our lawful occupations do not hinder us from practising divine
   love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   538
   V.

   A very sweet example on this subject. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
   539
   VI.

   That we are to employ in the practice of divine love all the occasions
   that present themselves. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . .
   540
   VII.

   That we must take pains to do our actions very perfectly. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   542
   VIII.

   A general means for applying our works to God's service. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   543
   IX.

   Of certain other means by which we may apply our works more
   particularly to the love of God. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . .
   545
   X.

   An exhortation to the sacrifice which we are to make to God of our
   free-will. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   548
   XI.

   The motives we have of holy love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . .
   551
   XII.

   A most useful method of employing these motives. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   552
   XIII.

   That Mount Calvary is the academy of love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   554
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    TREATISE

ON THE

                                  LOVE OF GOD





Dedicatory Prayer
     __________________________________________________________________

   MOST holy Mother of God, vessel of incomparable election, Queen of
   sovereign dilection, thou art the most lovely, the most loving and most
   beloved of all creatures! The love of the heavenly Father found its
   good pleasure in thee from all eternity, destining thy chaste heart to
   the perfection of holy love, to the end that one day thou mightest love
   his only Son with unique motherly love as he had done from all eternity
   with unique fatherly love. O Saviour Jesus, to whom could I better
   dedicate words on thy love, than to the most amiable heart of the
   well-beloved of thy soul?

   But O all triumphant Mother! Who can cast his eyes upon thy majesty
   without seeing at thy right hand him whom for the love of thee thy Son
   deigned so often to honour with the title of father, having united him
   unto thee by the celestial bond of a most virginal marriage, that he
   might be thy coadjutor and helper in the charge of the direction and
   education of his divine infancy? O great S. Joseph! Most beloved spouse
   of the well-beloved Mother, ah! how often hast thou borne in thy arms
   the love of heaven and earth, while, inflamed with the sweet embraces
   and kisses of this Divine child, thy soul melted away with joy while he
   tenderly whispered in thy ears (O God what sweetness!) that thou wast
   his great friend and his well-beloved father.

   Of old the lamps of the ancient temple were placed upon golden lilies.
   O Mary and Joseph, Pair without peer! Sacred lilies of incomparable
   beauty, amongst which the well-beloved feeds himself and feeds all his
   lovers--ah! if I may give myself any hope that this love-writing may
   enlighten and inflame the children of light, where can I better lay it
   than amongst your lilies, wherein the Sun of Justice, the splendour and
   brightness of the eternal light, did so sovereignly recreate himself
   that he there fulfilled the delights of the ineffable love of his heart
   towards us? O well-beloved mother of the well-beloved Son, O
   well-beloved spouse of the well-beloved mother! Prostrate before the
   feet of you who bore my Saviour, I dedicate and consecrate this little
   work of love to the immense greatness of your love. Ah! I conjure you
   by the heart of your sweet Jesus, King of hearts, whom your hearts
   adore--animate my heart, and all hearts that shall read this writing,
   by your all powerful favour with the Holy Ghost, that henceforth we may
   offer up in holocaust all our affections to his divine goodness, to
   live, die, and live again for ever, amid the flames of this heavenly
   fire, which Our Lord your son has so much desired to kindle in our
   hearts, that he never ceased to labour and sigh for this until death,
   even the death of the cross.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  VIVE JÉSUS.
     __________________________________________________________________

PREFACE.

   THE Holy Ghost teaches that the lips of the heavenly Spouse, that is
   The Church, resemble scarlet and the dropping honeycomb, [15] to let
   every one know that all the doctrine which she announces consists in
   sacred love; of a more resplendent red than scarlet on account of the
   blood of the spouse whose love inflames her, sweeter than honey on
   account of the sweetness of the beloved who crowns her with delights.
   So this heavenly spouse when he thought good to begin the promulgation
   of his law, cast down upon the assembly of those disciples whom he had
   deputed for this work a shower of fiery tongues, sufficiently
   intimating thereby that the preaching of the gospel was wholly designed
   for the inflaming of hearts.

   Represent to yourself beautiful doves amidst the rays of the sun; you
   will see their plumage break into as many different colours as you
   change your point of viewing them; because their feathers are so fitted
   to display the light, that when the sun comes to spread his splendour
   on them, a multitude of reflections are made, producing a great variety
   of tints and glancing colours, colours so agreeable to the eye that
   they surpass all other colours, even the enamel of richest jewels;
   colours so resplendent and so delicately gilded that the gilding makes
   their own colours more bright than ever; for it was this sight which
   made the royal prophet say If you sleep among the midst of lots; you
   shall be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and the hinder
   parts of her back with the paleness of gold. [16] The Church is indeed
   adorned with an excellent variety of teachings, sermons, treatises and
   spiritual books, all very beautiful and pleasant to the sight by reason
   of the admirable mingling which the Sun of Justice makes of his divine
   wisdom with the tongues of his pastors, which are their feathers, and
   with their pens, which sometimes hold the place of tongues, and form
   the rich plumage of this mystic dove. But amongst all the divers
   colours of the doctrine which she displays, the fine gold of holy
   Charity is everywhere spread, and makes itself excellently visible,
   gilding all the science of the saints with its incomparable lustre, and
   raising it above every other science. All is love's, and in love, for
   love, and of love, in the holy Church.

   But as we are not ignorant that all the light of the day proceeds from
   the sun and yet we ordinarily say that the sun does not shine, except
   only when it openly sends out its beams here or there; in like manner,
   though all Christian doctrine be about sacred love, yet we do not
   honour all theology indifferently with the title of this divine love,
   but only those parts of it which regard the birth, nature, properties
   and operations thereof in particular.

   Now it is true that divers writers have already handled this subject;
   above all those ancient Fathers, who as they did lovingly serve God so
   did they speak divinely of his love. O how good it is to hear S. Paul
   speak of heavenly things, who learned them even in heaven itself, and
   how good to see those souls who were nursed in the bosom of love write
   of its holy sweetness! For this reason those amongst the schoolmen that
   discoursed the most and the best of it, did also most excel in piety.
   S. Thomas has made a treatise on it worthy of S. Thomas; S. Bonaventure
   and B. Denis the Carthusian have made divers most excellent ones on it
   under various titles, and as for John Gerson, Chancellor of the
   University of Paris, Sixtus Senensis speaks of him thus: "He has so
   worthily discoursed of the fifty properties of divine love which are
   described in the course of the Canticle of Canticles, that he alone
   would seem to have taken proper account of the affections of the love
   of God." Truly this man was extremely learned, judicious and devout.

   And that we may know this kind of writings to be made more successfully
   by the devotion of lovers than by the learning of the wise, it has
   pleased the Holy Ghost that many women should work wonders in it. Who
   has ever better expressed the heavenly passions of sacred love, than S.
   Catharine of Genoa, S. Angela of Foligno, S. Catharine of Siena, S.
   Mechtilde?

   In our age also many have written upon this subject, whose works I have
   not had leisure to read distinctly but only here and there so far forth
   as was requisite to discover whether this book might yet find place.
   Father Louis of Granada, that great doctor of piety, has placed a
   treatise of the love of God in his Memorial, which is sufficiently
   commended in saying it is his. Diego Stella, of the Order of S.
   Francis, made another, which is very effective and profitable for
   prayer. Christopher Fonseca, an Augustinian, brought out one still
   larger, wherein he has many excellent things. Father Louis Richeome of
   the Society has also published a book under the title of The Art of
   Loving God by his Creatures, and this author is so amiable in his
   person and in his beautiful writings that doubtless he is even more so
   when writing of love itself. Father John of Jesus Maria, a discalced
   Carmelite, has composed a little book which is also called The Art of
   Loving God, and which is much esteemed. That great and celebrated
   Cardinal Bellarmine has also lately issued a little book entitled: The
   Ladder for Ascending unto God by his Creatures, which cannot be but
   admirable coming from that most learned hand and most devout soul, who
   has written so much and so wisely in the Church's behalf. I will say
   nothing of the Parenetic of that river of eloquence [17] who flows at
   present through all France in the multitude and variety of his sermons
   and noble writings. The close spiritual consanguinity which my soul has
   contracted with his, when by the imposition of my hands he received the
   sacred character of the episcopal order, to the great happiness of the
   diocese of Belley and to the honour of the Church, besides a thousand
   ties of a sincere friendship which fasten us together, permits me not
   to speak with praise of his works, amongst which this Parenetic of
   divine love was one of the first sallies of the matchless wealth of
   intellect which every one admires in him.

   We see further a goodly and magnificent palace which the R. Father
   Laurence of Paris, a Capuchin preacher, erected in honour of heavenly
   love, which being finished will be a complete course of the Art of
   loving well. And lastly the B. Mother (S.) Teresa of Jesus, has written
   so accurately of the sacred movements of love in all the books she has
   left us, that one is amazed to see so much eloquence masked under such
   profound humility, such great solidity of wit in such great simplicity:
   and her most learned ignorance makes the knowledge of many learned men
   appear ignorant, who after long and laborious study have to blush at
   not understanding what she so happily puts down touching the practice
   of holy love. Thus does God raise the throne of his power upon the
   ground of our infirmity, making use of weak things to confound the
   strong. [18]

   And although, my dear reader, this Treatise which I now present you,
   comes far short of those excellent works, without hope of ever running
   even with them, yet have I such confidence in the favour of the two
   heavenly lovers to whom I dedicate it, that still it may be in some way
   serviceable to you, and that in it you will meet with many wholesome
   considerations which you would not elsewhere so easily find, as again
   you may elsewhere find many beautiful things which are not here.
   Indeed, it even seems to me that my design is not the same as that of
   others except in general, inasmuch as we all look towards the glory of
   holy love. But this you will see by reading it.

   Truly my intention is only to represent simply and naïvely, without
   art, still more without false colours, the history of the birth,
   progress, decay, operations, properties, advantages and excellences of
   divine love. And if besides this you find other things, these are but
   excrescences which it is almost impossible for such as me who write
   amidst many distractions to avoid. But still I think that there will be
   nothing without some utility. Nature herself, who is so skilful a
   workwoman, intending to produce grapes, produces at the same time, as
   by a prudent inadvertence, such an abundance of leaves and branches,
   that there are very few vines which have not in their season to be
   pruned of leaves and shoots.

   Writers are often treated too harshly: the censures that are passed on
   them are given hastily, and very often with more incorrectness than
   they committed imprudence in hastening to publish their writings.
   Precipitation of judgment greatly puts in danger the conscience of the
   judge, and the innocence of the accused. Many write amiss and many
   censure foolishly. The kindness of the reader makes his reading sweet
   and profitable. And, my dear reader, to have you more favourable, I
   will here give you an explanation of some points which might
   peradventure otherwise put you out of humour.

   Some perhaps will think that I have said too much, and that it was not
   requisite to go so deep down into the roots of the subject, but I am of
   opinion that heavenly love is a plant like to that which we call
   Angelica, whose root is no less odoriferous and wholesome than the
   stalk and the branches. The four first books and some chapters of the
   rest might without doubt have been omitted, without disadvantage to
   such souls as only seek the practice of holy love, yet all of it will
   be profitable unto them if they behold it with a devout eye: while
   others also might have been disappointed not to have had the whole of
   what belongs to the treatise of divine love. I have taken into
   consideration as I should do, the state of the minds of this age: it
   much imports to remember in what age we are writing.

   I cite Scripture sometimes in other terms than those of the ordinary
   edition (the Vulgate). For God's sake, my dear reader do me not
   therefore the wrong to think that I wish to depart from that edition.
   Ah no! For I know the Holy Ghost has authorized it by the sacred
   Council of Trent, and that therefore all of us ought to keep to it: on
   the contrary I only use the other versions for the service of this,
   when they explain and confirm its true sense. For example what the
   heavenly spouse says to his spouse: Thou hast wounded my heart: [19] is
   greatly illustrated by the other version: Thou hast taken away my
   heart, or, Thou hast snatched away and ravished my heart. That which
   our Saviour said: Blessed are the poor in spirit: is much amplified and
   cleared by the Greek: Blessed are the beggars in spirit: and so with
   others.

   I have often cited the sacred Psalmist in verse, and this to recreate
   your mind and on account of the ease with which I could do it, by the
   beautiful translation of Phillip des Portes, Abbot of Tiron. This
   however I have sometimes departed from; not of course thinking I could
   improve the verses of this famous poet (for I should be too impertinent
   if never having so much as thought of this kind o£ writing, I should
   pretend to be happy in it in an age and condition of life which would
   oblige me to retire from it in case I had ever been engaged therein),
   but in some places where the sense might be variously taken, I have not
   followed his verse, because I would not follow his sense, as in Psalm
   cxxxii., where he has taken a certain Latin word for the fringe of the
   garment which I thought ought to be taken for the collar, wherefore I
   have translated it to my own mind.

   I have said nothing which I have not learned of others, yet it is
   impossible for me to remember whence I had everything in particular,
   but believe me, if I had taken any lengthy and remarkable passages out
   of any author, I would make it a matter of conscience not to let him
   have the deserved honour of it, and to remove a suspicion which you may
   conceive against my sincerity in this matter, I warn you that the 13th
   chapter of Book VII. is extracted from a sermon which I delivered at
   Paris at S. John's en Grève upon the feast of the Assumption of our
   Blessed Lady, 1602.

   I have not always expressed the sequence of the chapters, but if you
   notice you will easily find the links of their connection. In that and
   several other things I had a care to spare my own leisure and your
   patience. After I had caused the Introduction to a Devout Life to be
   printed, my Lord Archbishop of Vienne, Peter de Villars, did me the
   favour of writing his opinion of it in terms so advantageous to that
   little book and to me, that I should never dare to rehearse them: and
   exhorting me to apply the most of my leisure to the like works, amongst
   many rare counsels he favoured me with, one was that as far as the
   matter would permit I should always be short in the chapters. For as,
   said he, travellers knowing that there is a fair garden some twenty or
   twenty-five paces out of their way, readily turn aside so short a
   distance to go see it, which they would not do if it were further
   distant; even so those who know that there is but little distance
   between the beginning and end of a chapter do willingly undertake to
   read it, which they would not do though the subject were never so
   delightful, if a long time were required for the reading of it. And
   therefore I had good reason to follow my own inclination in this
   respect since it was agreeable to this great personage who was one of
   the most saintly prelates and learned doctors that the Church has had
   in our age, and who at the time that he honoured me with his letter was
   the most ancient of all the doctors of the faculty of Paris.

   A great servant of God informed me not long ago that by addressing my
   speech to Philothea in the Introduction to a Devout Life, I hindered
   many men from profiting by it: because they did not esteem advice given
   to a woman, to be worthy of a man. I marvelled that there were men who,
   to be thought men, showed themselves in effect so little men, for I
   leave it to your consideration, my dear reader, whether devotion be not
   as well for men as for women, and whether we are not to read with as
   great attention and reverence the second Epistle of S. John which was
   addressed to the holy lady Electa, as the third which he directs to
   Caius, and whether a thousand thousand Epistles and excellent Treatises
   of the ancient fathers of the Church ought to be held unprofitable to
   men, because they are addressed to holy women of those times. But,
   besides, it is the soul which aspires to devotion that I call
   Philothea, and men have souls as well as women.

   Nevertheless, to imitate the great Apostle in this occasion, who
   esteemed himself a debtor to every one, I have changed my address in
   this treatise and speak to Theotimus, but if perchance there should be
   any woman (and such an unreasonableness would be more tolerable in
   them) who would not read the instructions which are given to men, I beg
   them to know that Theotimus to whom I speak is the human spirit
   desirous of making progress in holy love, which spirit is equally in
   women as in men.

   This Treatise then is made for a soul already devout that she may be
   able to advance in her design, and hence I have been forced to say many
   things somewhat unknown to the generality, and which will therefore
   appear more obscure than they are. The depths of science are always
   somewhat hard to sound, and there are few divers who care and are able
   to descend and gather the pearls and other precious stones which are in
   the womb of the ocean. But if you have the courage fairly to penetrate
   these words which I have written, it will truly be with you as with the
   divers, who, says Pliny, see clearly in the deepest caves of the sea
   the light of the sun: for you will find in the hardest parts of this
   discourse a good and fair light. Moreover, as I do not follow them that
   despise books treating of a certain supereminently perfect life, so for
   my part, I do not speak of such a supereminence; for I can neither
   censure the authors, nor authorize the censors of a doctrine which I do
   not understand.

   I have touched on a number of theological questions, proposing simply,
   not so much what I anciently learnt in disputations, as what attention
   to the service of souls, and my twenty-four years spent in holy
   preaching have made me think most conducive to the glory of the Gospel
   and of the Church.

   For the rest some men of note in various places have signified to me
   that certain little books have been published simply under the first
   letters of their author's name which are the same as mine. This made
   some believe that they were my works, not without some little scandal
   to such as supposed thereby that I had bidden adieu to my simplicity,
   to puff up my style with pompous words, my argument with worldly
   conceit, and my conceptions with a lofty and plumed eloquence. For this
   cause my dear reader, I will tell you, that as those who engrave or cut
   precious stones, having their sight tired by keeping it continually
   fixed upon the small lines of their work, are glad to keep before them
   some fair emerald that by beholding it from time to time they may be
   recreated with its greenness and restore their weakened sight to its
   natural condition,--so in this press of business which my office daily
   draws upon me I have ever little projects of some treatise of piety,
   which I look at when I can, to revive and unweary my mind.

   However, I do not profess myself a writer; for the dulness of my spirit
   and the condition of my life, subject to the service and requirements
   of many, would not permit me so to be. Wherefore I have written very
   little and have published much less, and following the counsel and will
   of my friends I will tell you what I have written that you may not
   attribute the praises of another's labours to him who deserves none for
   his own.

   It is now nineteen years since that, being at Thonon, a small town
   situated upon the Lake of Geneva, which was then being little by little
   converted to the Catholic faith, the minister, an adversary of the
   Church, was proclaiming everywhere that the Catholic article of the
   real presence of our Saviour's body in the Eucharist destroyed the
   symbol and the analogy of faith (for he was glad to mouth this word
   analogy not understood by his auditors, in order to appear very
   learned; and upon this the rest of the Catholic preachers with whom I
   was pressed me to write something in refutation of this vanity. I did
   what seemed suitable, framing a brief meditation upon the Creed to
   confirm the truth: all the copies were distributed in this diocese
   where now I find not one of them.

   Soon afterwards his Highness came over the mountains, and finding the
   bailiwicks of Chablais, Gaillard and Ternier, which are in the environs
   of Geneva, well disposed to receive the Catholic faith which had been
   banished thence by force of wars and revolts about seventy years
   before, he resolved to re-establish the exercise thereof in all the
   parishes, and to abolish that of heresy, and whereas on the one side
   there were many obstacles to this great blessing from those
   considerations which are called reasons of State, and on the other side
   some persons as yet not well instructed in the truth made resistance
   against this so much-desired establishment, his Highness surmounted the
   first difficulty by the invincible constancy of his zeal for the
   Catholic religion, and the second by an extraordinary gentleness and
   prudence. For he had the chief and most obstinate called together, and
   made a speech unto them with so lovingly persuasive an eloquence that
   almost all, vanquished by the sweet violence of his fatherly love
   towards them, cast the weapons of their obstinacy at his feet, and
   their souls into the hands of Holy Church.

   And allow me, my dear readers I pray you, to say this word in passing.
   One may praise many rich actions of this great Prince, in which I see
   the proof of his valour and military knowledge, which with just cause
   is admired through all Europe. But for my part I cannot sufficiently
   extol the re-establishment of the Catholic religion in these three
   bailiwicks which I have just mentioned, having seen in it so many marks
   of piety, united with so many and various acts of prudence, constancy,
   magnanimity, justice and mildness, that I seemed to see in this one
   little trait, as in a miniature, all that is praised in princes who
   have in times past with most fervour striven to advance the glory of
   God and the Church. The stage was small, but the action great. And as
   that ancient craftsman was never so much esteemed for his great pieces
   as he was admired for making a ship of ivory fitted with all its gear,
   in so tiny a volume that the wings of a bee covered all, so I esteem
   more that which this great Prince did at that time in this small corner
   of his dominions, than many more brilliant actions which others extol
   to the heavens.

   Now on this occasion the victorious ensigns of the cross were replanted
   in all the ways and public places of those quarters, and whereas a
   little before there had been one erected very solemnly at Annemasse
   close to Geneva, a certain minister made a little treatise against the
   honour thereof, which was a burning and venomous invective, and to
   which therefore it was deemed fit to make answer. My Lord Claude de
   Granier, my predecessor, whose memory is in benediction, imposed the
   burden upon me according to the power which he had over me, who beheld
   him not only as my Bishop but also as a holy servant of God. I made
   therefore this answer, under the title: Defence of the Standard of the
   Cross, and dedicated it to his Highness, partly to testify unto him my
   most humble submission, and partly to render him some small
   thanksgiving for the care which he took of the Church in those parts.

   Now lately this Defence has been reprinted under the prodigious title
   of Panthalogy, or Treasure of the Cross: a title whereof I never
   dreamed, as in truth I am not a man of that study and leisure, nor of
   that memory, to be able to put together so many pieces of worth in one
   book as to let it deserve the name of Treasure or Panthalogy, besides I
   have a horror of such insolent frontispieces:

   A sot, or senseless creature we him call,

   Who makes his portal greater than his hall.

   In the year 1602, were celebrated at Paris, where I was, the obsequies
   of that magnanimous prince Philip Emanuel of Lorraine, Duke of
   Mercoeur, who had performed so many brave exploits against the Turks in
   Hungary that all Christianity was bound to conspire to honour his
   memory. But especially Madam Mary of Luxembourg, his widow, did for her
   part all that her heart and the love of the deceased could suggest to
   her to make his funeral solemn. And because my father, grandfather, and
   great grandfather had been brought up pages to the most illustrious
   princes of Martigues her father and his predecessors, she regarded me
   as an hereditary servant of her house; and made choice of me to preach
   the funeral sermon in that great celebration, where there were not only
   several Cardinals and Prelates but a number of princes also,
   princesses, marshals of France, knights of the Order, [20] and even the
   Court of Parliament in a body. I made then this funeral oration and
   pronounced it in this great assembly in the great Church of Paris, and
   as it contained a true abridgment of the heroic feats of the deceased
   prince, I willingly had it printed, at the request of the
   widow-princess, whose request was to me a law. I dedicated this piece
   to Madam the Duchess of Vendôme, as yet a girl, and a very young
   princess, yet one in whom were very clearly to be recognized the signs
   of that excellent virtue and piety which now adorn her, and which show
   her to be worthy of the bringing forth and educating by so devout and
   pious a mother.

   While this sermon was in the press, I heard that I had been made
   Bishop, so that I came here to be consecrated and to begin residence.
   And at first there was pointed out to me the necessity of instructing
   Confessors on some important points. For this reason I wrote
   twenty-five instructions, which I had printed to get them more easily
   spread amongst those to whom I directed them; since then they have been
   reprinted in various places.

   Three or four years afterwards I published the Introduction to a Devout
   Life, upon the occasion and in the manner which I have put down in the
   preface thereof: regarding which I have nothing to say to you, my dear
   reader, save only that though this little book has generally had a
   gracious and kind acceptance, yes even amongst the most grave prelates
   and doctors of the Church, yet it did not escape the rude censure of
   some who did not merely blame me but bitterly attacked me in public
   because I tell Philothea that dancing is an action indifferent in
   itself, and that for recreation's sake one may make quodlibets; and I,
   knowing the quality of these censors, praise their intention which I
   think was good. I should have desired them however to please to
   consider that the first proposition is drawn from the common and true
   doctrine of the most holy and learned divines, that I was writing for
   such as live in the world and in courts; that withal I carefully
   inculcate the extreme dangers which are found in dancing;--and that as
   to the second proposition it is not mine, but S. Louis's, that
   admirable king, a doctor worthy to be followed in the art of rightly
   conducting courtiers to a devout life. For, I believe if they had
   weighed this, their charity and discretion would never have permitted
   their zeal, how vigorous and austere soever, to arm their indignation
   against me.

   And therefore, my dear reader, I conjure you to be gracious and good to
   me in reading this Treatise. And if you find the style a little (though
   I am sure it will be but a very little) different from that which I
   used in the Defence of the Cross, know that in nineteen years one
   learns and unlearns many things, that the language of war differs from
   that of peace, and that a man uses one manner of speech to young
   apprentices and another to old fellow-craftsmen.

   My purpose here is to speak to souls that are advanced in devotion. For
   you must know that we have in this town a congregation of maidens and
   widows who, having retired from the world, live with one mind in God's
   service, under the protection of his most holy Mother, and as their
   purity and piety of spirit have oftentimes given me great consolation,
   so have I striven to return them the like by a frequent distribution of
   the holy word which I have announced to them as well in public sermons
   as in spiritual conferences, and this almost always in presence of some
   religious men and people of great piety. Hence I have often had to
   treat of the most delicate sentiments of piety, passing beyond that
   which I had said to Philothea: and I owe a good part of that which now
   I communicate to you to this blessed Society because she who is the
   mother of them and rules them, knowing that I was writing upon this
   subject, and yet that scarcely was I able to accomplish it without
   God's very special assistance, and their continual urging, took a
   constant care to pray and get prayers for this end, and holily conjured
   me to pick out all the little morsels of leisure which she judged might
   be spared here and there from the press of my hindrances and to employ
   them in this. And because this soul is in that consideration with me
   which God knows, she has had no little power to animate me in this
   occasion. I began indeed long ago to think of writing on holy love, but
   that thought came far short of what this occasion has made me produce,
   an occasion which I declare to you thus simply and in good faith, in
   imitation of the ancients, that you may know that I write only as I get
   the chance and opportunity, and that I may find you more favourable. It
   is said amongst the Pagans that Phidias never represented anything so
   perfectly as the gods, nor Apelles as Alexander. One is not always
   equally successful: if I fall short in this treatise, let your goodness
   make progress and God will bless your reading.

   To this end I have dedicated this work to the Mother of dilection and
   to the Father of cordial love, as I dedicated the Introduction to the
   Divine child who is the Saviour of lovers and the love of the saved.
   And as women, while they are strong and able to bring forth their
   children with ease, choose commonly their worldly friends to be
   godfathers, but when their feebleness and indisposition make their
   delivery hard and dangerous invoke the saints of heaven, and vow to
   have their children stood to by some poor body or by some devout soul
   in the name of S. Joseph, S. Francis of Assisi, S. Francis of Paula, S.
   Nicholas, or some other of the blessed, who may obtain of God their
   safe delivery and that the child may be born alive:--so I, while I was
   not yet bishop, having more leisure and less fears for my writings,
   dedicated my little works to princes of the earth, but now being
   weighed down with my charge, and having a thousand difficulties in
   writing, I consecrate all to the princes of heaven, that they may
   obtain for me the light requisite, and that if such be the Divine will,
   these my writings may be fruitful and profitable to many.

   Thus my dear reader I beseech God to bless you and to enrich you with
   his love. Meanwhile from my very heart I submit all my writings, my
   words and actions to the correction of the most holy Catholic,
   Apostolic, and Roman Church, knowing that she is the pillar and ground
   of truth, [21] wherein she can neither be deceived nor deceive us, and
   that none can have God for his father who will not have this Church for
   his mother.






   Annecy, the day of the most loving Apostles

   S. Peter and S. Paul. 1616.




   Blessed be God.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [15] Cant. iv.

   [16] Ps. lxvii. 14.

   [17] M. Camus.

   [18] 1 Cor. i. 27.

   [19] Cant. iv. 9.

   [20] Of the Holy Spirit. (Tr.)

   [21] 1 Tim. iii. 15.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

THE LOVE OF GOD.
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK I.

   CONTAINING A

PREPARATION FOR THE WHOLE TREATISE.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   THAT FOR THE BEAUTY OF HUMAN NATURE GOD HAS GIVEN THE GOVERNMENT OF ALL
   THE FACULTIES OF THE SOUL TO THE WILL.

   Union in distinction makes order; order produces agreement; and
   proportion and agreement, in complete and finished things, make beauty.
   An army has beauty when it is composed of parts so ranged in order that
   their distinction is reduced to that proportion which they ought to
   have together for the making of one single army. For music to be
   beautiful, the voices must not only be true, clear, and distinct from
   one another, but also united together in such a way that there may
   arise a just consonance and harmony which is not unfitly termed a
   discordant harmony or rather harmonious discord.

   Now as the angelic S. Thomas, following the great S. Denis, says
   excellently well, beauty and goodness though in some things they agree,
   yet still are not one and the same thing: for good is that which
   pleases the appetite and will, beauty that which pleases the
   understanding or knowledge; or, in other words, good is that which
   gives pleasure when we enjoy it, beauty that which gives pleasure when
   we know it. For which cause in proper speech we only attribute corporal
   beauty to the objects of those two senses which are the most
   intellectual and most in the service of the understanding--namely,
   sight and hearing, so that we do not say, these are beautiful odours or
   beautiful tastes: but we rightly say, these are beautiful voices and
   beautiful colours.

   The beautiful then being called beautiful, because the knowledge
   thereof gives pleasure, it is requisite that besides the union and the
   distinction, the integrity, the order, and the agreement of its parts,
   there should be also splendour and brightness that it may be knowable
   and visible. Voices to be beautiful must be clear and true; discourses
   intelligible; colours brilliant and shining. Obscurity, shade and
   darkness are ugly and disfigure all things, because in them nothing is
   knowable, neither order, distinction, union nor agreement; which caused
   S. Denis to say, that "God as the sovereign beauty is author of the
   beautiful harmony, beautiful lustre and good grace which is found in
   all things, making the distribution and decomposition of his one ray of
   beauty spread out, as light, to make all things beautiful," willing
   that to compose beauty there should be agreement, clearness and good
   grace.

   Certainly, Theotimus, beauty is without effect, unprofitable and dead,
   if light and splendour do not make it lively and effective, whence we
   term colours lively when they have light and lustre.

   But as to animated and living things their beauty is not complete
   without good grace, which, besides the agreement of perfect parts which
   makes beauty, adds the harmony of movements, gestures and actions,
   which is as it were the life and soul of the beauty of living things.
   Thus, in the sovereign beauty of our God, we acknowledge union, yea,
   unity of essence in the distinction of persons, with an infinite glory,
   together with an incomprehensible harmony of all perfections of actions
   and motions, sovereignly comprised, and as one would say excellently
   joined and adjusted, in the most unique and simple perfection of the
   pure divine act, which is God Himself, immutable and invariable, as
   elsewhere we shall show.

   God, therefore, having a will to make all things good and beautiful,
   reduced the multitude and distinction of the same to a perfect unity,
   and, as man would say, brought them all under a monarchy, making a
   subordination of one thing to another and of all things to himself the
   sovereign Monarch. He reduces all our members into one body under one
   head, of many persons he forms a family, of many families a town, of
   many towns a province, of many provinces a kingdom, putting the whole
   kingdom under the government of one sole king. So, Theotimus, over the
   innumerable multitude and variety of actions, motions, feelings,
   inclinations, habits, passions, faculties and powers which are in man,
   God has established a natural monarchy in the will, which rules and
   commands all that is found in this little world: and God seems to have
   said to the will as Pharao said to Joseph: Thou shalt be over my house,
   and at the commandment of thy mouth all the people shall obey. [22]
   This dominion of the will is exercised indeed in very various ways.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [22] Gen. xli. 40.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   HOW THE WILL VARIOUSLY GOVERNS THE POWERS OF THE SOUL.

   A Father directs his wife, his children and his servants by his
   ordinances and commandments, which they are obliged to obey though they
   are able not to obey; but if he have servants and slaves, he rules them
   by force which they have no power to contradict; his horses, oxen and
   mules he manages by industry, binding, bridling, goading, shutting in,
   or letting out.

   Now the will governs the faculty of our exterior motion as a serf or
   slave: for unless some external thing hinder, it never fails to obey.
   We open and shut our mouth, move our tongue, our hands, feet, eyes, and
   all the members to which the power of this movement refers without
   resistance, according to our wish and will.

   But as for our senses and the faculties of nourishing, growing, and
   producing, we cannot with the same ease govern them, but we must employ
   industry and art. If a slave be called he comes, if he be told to stop,
   he stops; but we must not expect this obedience from a sparrowhawk or
   falcon: he that desires it should return to the hand must show it the
   lure; if he would keep it quiet he must hood it. We bid our servant
   turn to the right or left hand and he does it, but to make a horse so
   turn we must make use of the bridle. We must not, Theotimus, command
   our eyes not to see, our ears not to hear, our hands not to touch, our
   stomach not to digest, or our body not to grow, for these faculties not
   having intelligence are not capable of obedience. No one can add a
   cubit to his stature. We often eat without nourishing ourselves or
   growing; he that will prevail with these powers must use industry. A
   physician who has to do with a child in the cradle commands him
   nothing, but only gives orders to the nurse to do such and such things,
   or else perchance he prescribes for the nurse to eat this or that meat,
   to take such and such medicine. This infuses its qualities into the
   milk which enters the child's body, and the physician accomplishes his
   will in this little weakling who has not even the power to think of it.
   We must not give the orders of abstinence, sobriety or continency unto
   the palate or stomach, but the hands must be commanded only to furnish
   to the mouth meat and drink in such and such a measure, we take away
   from or give our faculties their object and subject, and the food which
   strengthens them, as reason requires. If we desire our eyes not to see
   we must turn them away, or cover them with their natural hood, and shut
   them, and by these means we may bring them to the point which the will
   desires. It would be folly to command a horse not to wax fat, not to
   grow, not to kick,--to effect all this, stop his corn; you must not
   command him, you must simply make him do as you wish.

   The will also exercises a certain power over the understanding and
   memory, for of many things which the understanding has power to
   understand and the memory has power to remember, the will determines
   those to which she would have her faculties apply themselves, or from
   which divert themselves. It is true she cannot manage or range them so
   absolutely as she does the hands, feet or tongue, on account of the
   sensitive faculties, especially the fancy, which do not obey the will
   with a prompt and infallible obedience, and which are necessarily
   required for the operations of the understanding and memory: but yet
   the will moves, employs and applies these faculties at her pleasure
   though not so firmly and constantly that the light and variable fancy
   does not often divert and distract them, so that as the Apostle cries
   out: I do not the good which I desire, but the evil which I hate. [23]
   So we are often forced to complain that we think not of the good which
   we love, but the evil which we hate.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [23] Rom. vii. 15.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   HOW THE WILL GOVERNS THE SENSUAL APPETITE.

   The will then, Theotimus, bears rule over the memory, understanding and
   fancy, not by force but by authority, so that she is not infallibly
   obeyed any more than the father of a family is always obeyed by his
   children and servants. It is the same as regards the sensitive
   appetite, which, as S. Augustine says, is called in us sinners
   concupiscence, and is subject to the will and understanding as the wife
   to her husband, because as it was said to the woman: Be under thy
   husband, and he shall have dominion over thee, [24] so was it said to
   Cain, that the lust of sin should be under him and he should have
   dominion over it. [25] And this being under means nothing else than
   being submitted and subjected to him. "O man," says S. Bernard, "it is
   in thy power if thou wilt to bring thy enemy to be thy servant so that
   all things may go well with thee; thy appetite is under thee and thou
   shalt domineer over it. Thy enemy can move in thee the feeling of
   temptation, but it is in thy power if thou wilt to give or refuse
   consent. In case thou permit thy appetite to carry thee away to sin,
   then thou shalt be under it, and it shall domineer over thee, for
   whosoever sinneth is made the servant of sin, but before thou sinnest,
   so long as sin gets not entry into thy consent, but only into thy
   sense, that is to say, so long as it stays in the appetite, not going
   so far as thy will, thy appetite is subject unto thee and thou lord
   over it." Before the Emperor is created he is subject to the electors'
   dominion, in whose hands it is to reject him or to elect him to the
   imperial dignity; but being once elected and elevated by their means,
   henceforth they are under him and he rules over them. Before the will
   consents to the appetite, she rules over it, but having once given
   consent she becomes its slave.

   To conclude, this sensual appetite in plain truth is a rebellious
   subject, seditious, restive, and we must confess we cannot so defeat it
   that it does not rise again, encounter and assault the reason; yet the
   will has such a strong hand over it that she is able, if she please, to
   bridle it, break its designs and repulse it, since not to consent to
   its suggestions is a sufficient repulse. We cannot hinder concupiscence
   from conceiving, but we can from bringing forth and accomplishing, sin.

   Now this concupiscence or sensual appetite has twelve movements, by
   which as by so many mutinous captains it raises sedition in man. And
   because ordinarily they trouble the soul and disquiet the body;
   insomuch as they trouble the soul, they are called perturbations,
   insomuch as they disquiet the body they are named passions, as S.
   Augustine declares. They all place before themselves good or evil, the
   former to obtain, the latter to avoid. If good be considered in itself
   according to its natural goodness it excites love, the first and
   principal passion; if good be regarded as absent it provokes us to
   desire; if being desired we think we are able to obtain it we enter
   into hope; if we think we cannot obtain it we feel despair; but when we
   possess it as present, it moves us to joy.

   On the contrary, as soon as we discover evil we hate it, if it be
   absent we fly it, if we cannot avoid it we fear it; if we think we can
   avoid it we grow bold and courageous, but if we feel it as present we
   grieve; and then anger and wrath suddenly rush forth to reject and
   repel the evil or at least to take vengeance for it. If we cannot
   succeed we remain in grief. But if we repulse or avenge it we feel
   satisfaction and satiation, which is a pleasure of triumph, for as the
   possession of good gladdens the heart, so the victory over evil exalts
   the spirits. And over all this multitude of sensual passions the will
   bears empire, rejecting their suggestions, repulsing their attacks,
   hindering their effects, or at the very least sternly refusing them
   consent, without which they can never harm us, and by refusing which
   they remain vanquished, yea in the long run broken down, weakened, worn
   out, beaten down, and if not altogether dead, at least deadened or
   mortified.

   And Theotimus, this multitude of passions is permitted to reside in our
   soul for the exercise of our will in virtue and spiritual valour;
   insomuch that the Stoics who denied that passions were found in wise
   men greatly erred, and so much the more because they practised in deeds
   what in words they denied, as S. Augustine shows, recounting this
   agreeable history. Aulus Gellius having gone on sea with a famous
   Stoic, a great tempest arose, at which the Stoic being frightened began
   to grow pale, to blench and to tremble so sensibly that all in the boat
   perceived it, and watched him curiously, although they were in the same
   hazard with him. In the meantime the sea grew calm, the danger passed,
   and safety restoring to each the liberty to talk and even to rally one
   another, a certain voluptuous Asiatic reproached him with his fear,
   which had made him aghast and pale at the danger, whereas the other on
   the contrary had remained firm and without fear. To this the Stoic
   replied by relating what Aristippus, a Socratic philosopher, had
   answered a man, who for the same reason had attacked him with the like
   reproach; saying to him: As for thee, thou hadst no reason to be
   troubled for the soul of a wicked rascal: but I should have done myself
   wrong not to have feared to lose the life of an Aristippus. And the
   value of the story is, that Aulus Gellius, an eye-witness, relates it.
   But as to the Stoic's reply contained therein, it did more commend his
   wit than his cause, since bringing forward this comrade in his fear, he
   left it proved by two irreproachable witnesses, that Stoics were
   touched with fear, and with the fear which shows its effects in the
   eyes, face and behaviour, and is consequently a passion.

   A great folly, to wish to be wise with an impossible wisdom Truly the
   Church has condemned the folly of that wisdom which certain
   presumptuous Anchorites would formally have introduced, against which
   the whole Scripture but especially the great Apostle, cries out: We
   have a law in our body which resisteth the law of our mind. [26]
   "Amongst us Christians," says the great S. Augustine, "according to
   holy Scripture and sound doctrine, the citizens of the sacred city of
   Gods living according to God, in the pilgrimage of this world fear,
   desire, grieve, rejoice." Yea even the sovereign King of this city has
   feared, desired, has grieved and rejoiced, even to tears, wanness,
   trembling, sweating of blood; though in him as these were not the
   motions of passions like ours, the great S. Jerome, and after him the
   School durst not use the name, passions, for reverence of the person in
   whom they were, but the respectful name, pro-passions. This was to
   testify that sensible movements in Our Saviour held the place of
   passions, though they were not such indeed, seeing that he suffered or
   endured nothing from them except what seemed good to him and as he
   pleased, which we sinners cannot do, who suffer and endure these
   motions with disorder, against our wills, to the great prejudice of the
   good estate and polity of our soul.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [24] Gen. iii. 16.

   [25] Ib.iv. 7.

   [26] Rom. vii. 23.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   THAT LOVE RULES OVER ALL THE AFFECTIONS, AND PASSIONS, AND EVEN GOVERNS
   THE WILL, ALTHOUGH THE WILL HAS ALSO A DOMINION OVER IT.

   Love being the first complacency which we take in good, as we shall
   presently show, it of course precedes desire; and indeed what other
   thing do we desire, but that which we love? It precedes delectation,
   for how could we rejoice in the enjoyment of a thing if we loved it
   not? It precedes hope, for we hope only for the good which we love: it
   precedes hatred, for we hate not evil, except for the love we have for
   good: nor is evil evil but because it is contrary to good. And,
   Theotimus, it is the same with all the other passions and affections;
   for they all proceed from love, as from their source and root.

   For which cause the other passions and affections, are good or bad,
   vicious or virtuous, according as the love whence they proceed is good
   or bad; for love so spreads over them her own qualities, that they seem
   to be no other than this same love. S. Augustine reducing all these
   passions and affections to four, as did also Boetius, Cicero, Virgil,
   with the greatest part of the ancients:--"Love," says he, "tending to
   the possession of what it loves, is termed concupiscence or desire;
   having and possessing it it is called joy; flying that which is
   contrary to it, it is named fear; but if this really seizes it and it
   feels it, love is named grief, and consequently these passions are evil
   if the love be evil, good if it be good. The citizens of the heavenly
   city fear, desire, grieve, love, and because their love is just, all
   their affections are also just. Christian doctrine subjects the reason
   to God that he may guide and help it, and subjects all these passions
   to the spirit, that it may bridle and moderate them and so convert them
   to the service of justice and virtue. The right will is good love, the
   bad will is evil love;" [27] that is to say, in a word, Theotimus, love
   has such dominion over the will as to make it exactly such as it is
   itself.

   The wife ordinarily changes her condition into that of her husband,
   becoming noble if he be noble, queen if he be king, duchess if he be
   duke. The will also changes her condition according to the love she
   espouses; if this be carnal she becomes carnal, if this be spiritual
   she is spiritual, and all the affections of desire, joy, hope, fear,
   grief, as children born of the marriage between love and the will,
   consequently receive their qualities from love. In short, Theotimus,
   the will is only moved by her affections, amongst which love, as the
   primum mobile and first affection, gives motion to all the rest, and
   causes all the other motions of the soul.

   But it does not follow hence that the will does not also rule over
   love, seeing that the will only loves while willing to love, and that
   of many loves which present themselves she can apply herself to which
   she pleases, otherwise there would be no love either forbidden or
   commanded. She is then mistress over her loves as a maiden over her
   suitors, amongst whom she may make election of which she pleases. But
   as after marriage she loses her liberty and of mistress becomes subject
   to her husband's power, remaining taken by him whom she took, so the
   will which at her own pleasure made election of love, after she has
   chosen one remains subject to it. And as the wife is always subject to
   the husband whom she has chosen as long as he lives, and if he die
   regains her former liberty to marry another, so while a love lives in
   the will it reigns there, and the will is subject to its movements, but
   if this love die she can afterwards take another. And again there is a
   liberty in the will which the wife has not, and it is that the will can
   reject her love at her pleasure, by applying her understanding to
   motives which make it displeasing, and by taking a resolution to change
   the object. For thus, to make divine love live and reign in us, we kill
   self-love, and if we cannot entirely annihilate it at least we weaken
   it in such a way that though it lives yet it does not reign in us. As,
   on the contrary, in forsaking divine love we may adhere to that of
   creatures, which is the infamous adultery with which the Divine lover
   so often reproaches sinners.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [27] De Civ. Dei, xiv. ix.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   OF THE AFFECTIONS OF THE WILL.

   There are no fewer movements in the intellectual or reasonable appetite
   which is called the will, than there are in the sensitive or sensual,
   but the first are customarily named affections, the latter passions.
   The philosophers and pagans did in some manner love God, the state,
   virtue, sciences; they hated vice, aspired after honours, despaired of
   escaping death or calumny, were desirous of knowledge, yea even of
   beatitude after death. They encouraged themselves to surmount the
   difficulties which cross the way of virtue, dreaded blame, avoided some
   faults, avenged public injuries, opposed tyrants, without any
   self-interest. Now all these movements were seated in the reasonable
   part, since the senses, and consequently, the sensual appetite, are not
   capable of being applied to these objects, and therefore these
   movements were affections of the intellectual or reasonable appetite,
   not passions of the sensual.

   How often do we feel passions in the sensual appetite or concupiscence,
   contrary to the affections which at the same time we perceive in the
   reasonable appetite or will? How clearly was shown at one and the same
   time the action of the pleasure of the senses and the displeasure of
   the will, in that young martyr mentioned by S. Jerom, who, forced to
   bear the attacks of sensuality, bit off a piece of his tongue and spat
   it in his tempter's face? How often do we tremble amidst the dangers to
   which our will carries us and in which it makes us remain? How often do
   we hate the pleasure in which the sensual appetite takes delight, and
   love the spiritual good with which that is disgusted? In this consists
   the war which we daily experience between the spirit and the flesh:
   between our exterior man, which is under the senses, and the interior
   which is under the reason; between the old Adam who follows the
   appetites of his Eve, or concupiscence, and the new Adam who follows
   heavenly wisdom and holy reason.

   The Stoics, as S. Augustine remarks, [28] denying that the wise man can
   have passions, appear to have confessed that he has affections, which
   they term eupathies, or good passions, or, as Cicero called them,
   constancies: for they said the wise man did not covet but desired, had
   not glee but joy; that he had no fear, but only foresight and
   precaution, so that he was not moved except by reason and according to
   reason: for this cause they peremptorily denied that a wise man could
   ever be sorrowful, that being caused by present evil, whereas no evil
   can befal a wise man, since no man is hurt but by himself, according to
   their maxim. And truly, Theotimus, they were not wrong in holding that
   there are eupathies and good affections in the reasonable part of man,
   but they erred much in saying that there were no passions in the
   sensitive part, and that sorrow did not touch a wise man's heart: for
   omitting the fact that they themselves were troubled in this kind (as
   was just said), how could it be that wisdom should deprive us of pity,
   which is a virtuous sorrow and which comes into our hearts in order to
   make them desire to deliver our neighbour from the evil which he
   endures? And the wisest man of all paganism, Epictetus, did not hold
   this error that passions do not rise in the wise man, as S. Augustine
   witnesses, showing further that the Stoics' difference with other
   philosophers on this subject was but a mere dispute of words and strife
   of language.

   Now these affections which we feel in our reasonable part are more or
   less noble and spiritual, according as their objects are more or less
   sublime, and as they are in a more eminent department of the spirit:
   for there are affections in us which proceed from conclusions gained by
   the experience of our senses; others by reasonings from human sciences;
   others from principles of faith; and finally there are some which have
   their origin from the simple sentiment of the truth of God, and
   acquiescence in his will. The first are called natural affections, for
   who is he that does not naturally desire health, his provision of food
   and clothing, sweet and agreeable conversation? The second class of
   affections are named reasonable, as being altogether founded upon the
   spiritual knowledge of the reason, by which our will is excited to seek
   tranquillity of heart, moral virtues, true honour, the contemplation of
   eternal things. The third sort of affections are termed Christian,
   because they issue from reasonings founded on the doctrine of Our Lord,
   who makes us love voluntary Poverty, perfect Chastity, the glory of
   heaven. But the affections of the supreme degree are named divine and
   supernatural because God himself spreads them abroad in our spirits,
   and because they regard God and aim at him, without the medium of any
   reasoning, or any light of nature, as it will be easy to understand
   from what we shall say afterwards about the acquiescences and
   affections which are made in the sanctuary of the soul. And these
   supernatural affections are principally three: the love of the mind for
   the beautiful in the mysteries of faith, love for the useful in the
   goods which are promised us in the other life, and love for the
   sovereign good of the most holy and eternal divinity.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [28] De Civ. Dei, xiv.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   HOW THE LOVE OF GOD HAS DOMINION OVER OTHER LOVES.

   The will governs all the other faculties of man's soul, yet it is
   governed by its love which makes it such as its love is. Now of all
   loves that of God holds the sceptre, and has the authority of
   commanding so inseparably united to it and proper to its nature, that
   if it be not master it ceases to be and perishes.

   Ismael was not co-heir with Isaac his younger brother, Esau was
   appointed to be his younger brother's servant, Joseph was adored, not
   only by his brothers, but also by his father, yea, and by his mother
   also, in the person of Benjamin, as he had foreseen in the dreams of
   his youth. Truly it is not without mystery that the younger of these
   brethren thus bear away the advantage from the elder. Divine love is
   indeed the last begotten of all the affections of man's heart, for as
   the Apostle says: That which is animal is first; afterwards that which
   is spiritual: [29] --but this last born inherits all the authority, and
   self-love, as another Esau is deputed to his service; and not only all
   the other motions of the soul as his brethren adore him and are subject
   to him, but also the understanding and will which are to him as father
   and mother. All is subject to this heavenly love, who will either be
   king or nothing, who cannot live unless he reign, nor reign if not
   sovereignly.

   Isaac, Jacob and Joseph were supernatural children; for their mothers,
   Sarah, Rebecca and Rachel, being sterile by nature, conceived them by
   the grace of the divine goodness, and for this cause they were
   established masters of their brethren. Similarly, divine love is a
   child of miracle, since man's will cannot conceive it if it be not
   poured into our hearts by the Holy Ghost. And as supernatural it must
   rule and reign over all the affections, yea, even over the
   understanding and will.

   And although there are other supernatural movements in the soul,--fear,
   piety, force, hope,--as Esau and Benjamin were supernatural children of
   Rachel and Rebecca, yet is divine love still master, heir and superior,
   as being the son of promise, since in virtue of it heaven is promised
   to man. Salvation is shown to faith, it is prepared for hope, but it is
   given only to charity. Faith points out the way to the land of promise
   as a pillar of cloud and of fire, that is, light and dark; hope feeds
   us with its manna of sweetness, but charity actually introduces us into
   it, as the Ark of alliance, which makes for us the passage of the
   Jordan, that is, of the judgment, and which shall remain amidst the
   people in the heavenly land promised to the true Israelites, where
   neither the pillar of faith serves as guide nor the manna of hope is
   used as food.

   Divine love makes its abode in the most high and sublime region of the
   soul, where it offers sacrifice and holocausts to the divinity as
   Abraham did, and as our Saviour sacrificed himself upon the top of
   Calvary, to the end that from so exalted a place it may be heard and
   obeyed by its people, that is, by all the faculties and affections of
   the soul. These he governs with an incomparable sweetness, for love has
   no convicts nor slaves, but brings all things under its obedience with
   a force so delightful, that as nothing is so strong as love nothing
   also is so sweet as its strength.

   The virtues are in the soul to moderate its movements, and charity, as
   first of all the virtues, governs and tempers them all, not only
   because the first in every species of things serves as a rule and
   measure to the rest, but also because God, having created man to his
   image and likeness, wills that as in himself so in man all things
   should be ordered by love and for love.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [29] 1 Cor. xv. 46.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   DESCRIPTION OF LOVE IN GENERAL.

   The will has so great a sympathy with good that as soon as she
   perceives it she turns towards it to delight therein as in her most
   agreeable object, to which she is so closely allied that her nature
   cannot be explained except by the relation she has thereto, just as one
   cannot show the nature of what is good except by the affinity it has
   with the will. For, tell me, Theotimus, what is good but that which
   every one wills. And what is the will, if not the faculty which bears
   us towards and makes us tend to good or what the will believes to be
   such?

   The will then perceiving and feeling the good, by the help of the
   understanding which proposes it, feels at the same time a sudden
   delight and complacency at this meeting, which sweetly yet powerfully
   moves her towards this pleasing object in order to unite herself with
   it, and makes her search out the means most proper to attain this
   union.

   The will then has a most close affinity with good; this affinity
   produces the complacency which the will takes in feeling and perceiving
   good; this complacency moves and spurs the will forward to good; this
   movement tends to union; and in fine the will moved and tending to
   union searches out all the means necessary to get it.

   And in truth, speaking generally, love comprises all this together, as
   a beautiful tree, whose root is the correspondence which the will has
   to good, its foot is the complacency, its trunk is the movement, its
   seekings, its pursuits, and other efforts are the branches, but union
   and enjoyment are its fruits. Thus love seems to be composed of these
   five principal parts under which a number of other little pieces are
   contained as we shall see in the course of this work.

   Let us consider, I pray you, the exercise of an insensible love between
   the loadstone and iron; for it is the true image of the sensible and
   voluntary love of which we speak. Iron, then, has such a sympathy with
   the loadstone that as soon as it feels the power thereof, it turns
   towards it; then it suddenly begins to stir and quiver with little
   throbbings, testifying by this the complacency it feels, and then it
   advances and moves towards the loadstone striving by all means possible
   to be united to it. Do you not see all the parts of love well
   represented in these lifeless things?

   But to conclude, Theotimus, the complacency and the movement towards,
   or effusion of the will upon, the thing beloved is properly speaking
   love; yet in such sort that the complacency is but the beginning of
   love, and the movement or effusion of the heart which ensues is the
   true essential love, so that the one and the other may truly be named
   love, but in a different sense: for as the dawning of day may be termed
   day, so this first complacency of the heart in the thing beloved may be
   called love because it is the first feeling of love. But as the true
   heart of the day is measured from the end of dawn till sunset, so the
   true essence of love consists in the movement and effusion of the heart
   which immediately follows complacency and ends in union. In short,
   complacency is the first stirring or emotion which good causes in the
   will, and this emotion is followed by the movement and effusion by
   which the soul runs towards and reaches the thing beloved, which is the
   true and proper love. We may express it thus: the good takes, grasps
   and ties the heart by complacency, but by love it draws, conducts and
   conveys it to itself, by complacency it makes it start on its way, but
   by love it makes it achieve the journey. Complacency is the awakener of
   the heart, but love is its action; complacency makes it get up, but
   love makes it walk. The heart spreads its wings by complacency but love
   is its flight. Love then, to speak distinctly and precisely, is no
   other thing than the movement, effusion and advancement of the heart
   towards good.

   Many great persons have been of opinion that love is no other thing
   than complacency itself, in which they have had much appearance of
   reason. For not only does the movement of love take its origin from the
   complacency which the heart feels at the first approach of good, and
   find its end in a second complacency which returns to the heart by
   union with the thing beloved,--but further, it depends for its
   preservation on this complacency, and can only subsist through it as
   through its mother and nurse; so that as soon as the complacency ceases
   love ceases. And as the bee being born in honey, feeds on honey, and
   only flies for honey, so love is born of complacency, maintained by
   complacency, and tends to complacency. It is the weight of things which
   stirs them, moves them, and stays them; it is the weight of the stone
   that stirs it and moves it to its descent as soon as the obstacles are
   removed; it is the same weight that makes it continue its movement
   downwards; and finally it is the same weight that makes it stop and
   rest as soon as it has reached its place. So it is with the complacency
   which excites the will: this moves it, and this makes it repose in the
   thing beloved when it has united itself therewith. This motion of love
   then having its birth, preservation, and perfection dependent on
   complacency, and being always inseparably joined thereto, it is no
   marvel that these great minds considered love and complacency to be the
   same, though in truth love being a true passion of the soul cannot be a
   simple complacency, but must needs be the motion proceeding from it.

   Now this motion caused by complacency lasts till the union or fruition.
   Therefore when it tends to a present good, it does no more than push
   the heart, clasp it, join, and apply it to the thing beloved, which by
   this means it enjoys, and then it is called love of complacency,
   because as soon as ever it is begotten of the first complacency it ends
   in the second, which it receives in being united to its present object.
   But when the good towards which the heart is turned, inclined, and
   moved is distant, absent or future, or when so perfect a union cannot
   yet be made as is desired, then the motion of love by which the heart
   tends, makes and aspires towards this absent object, is properly named
   desire, for desire is no other thing than the appetite, concupiscence,
   or cupidity for things we have not, but which however we aim at
   getting.

   There are yet certain other motions of love by which we desire things
   that we neither expect nor aim at in any way, as when we say:--Why am I
   not now in heaven! I wish I were a king; I would to God I were younger;
   how I wish I had never sinned, and the like. These indeed are desires,
   but imperfect ones, which, to speak properly, I think, might be called
   wishings (souhaits). And indeed these affections are not expressed like
   desires, for when we express our true desires we say: I desire (Je
   desire): but when we signify our imperfect desires we say: I should or
   I would desire (je desirerois), or I should like. We may well say: I
   would desire to be young; but we do not say: I desire to be young;
   seeing that this is not possible; and this motion is called a wishing,
   or as the Scholastics term it a velleity, which is nothing else but a
   commencement of willing, not followed out, because the will, by reason
   of impossibility or extreme difficulty, stops her motion, and ends it
   in this simple affection of a wish. It is as though she said: this good
   which I behold and cannot expect to get is truly very agreeable to me,
   and though I cannot will it nor hope for it, yet so my affection
   stands, that if I could will or desire it, I would desire and will it
   gladly.

   In brief, these wishings or velleities are nothing else but a little
   love, which may be called love of simple approbation, because the soul
   approves the good she knows, and being unable to effectually desire she
   protests she would willingly desire it, and that it is truly to be
   desired.

   Nor is this all, Theotimus, for there are desires and velleities which
   are yet more imperfect than those we have spoken of, forasmuch as their
   motions are not stayed by reason of impossibility or extreme
   difficulty, but by their incompatibility with other more powerful
   desires or willings; as when a sick man desires to eat mushrooms or
   melons;--though he may have them at his order, yet he will not eat
   them, fearing thereby to make himself worse; for who sees not that
   there are two desires in this man, the one to eat mushrooms, the other
   to be cured? But because the desire of being cured is the stronger, it
   blocks up and suffocates the other and hinders it from producing any
   effect. Jephte wished to preserve his daughter, but this not being
   compatible with his desire to keep his vow, he willed what he did not
   wish, namely, to sacrifice his daughter, and wished what he did not
   will, namely, to preserve his daughter. Pilate and Herod wished, the
   one to deliver our Saviour, the other his precursor: but because these
   wishes were incompatible with the desires, the one to please the Jews
   and Cæsar, the other, Herodias and her daughter, these wishes were vain
   and fruitless. Now in proportion as those things which are incompatible
   with our wishes are less desirable, the wishes are more imperfect,
   since they are stopped and, as it were, stifled by contraries so weak.
   Thus the wish which Herod had not to behead S. John was more imperfect
   than that of Pilate to free our Saviour. For the latter feared the
   calumny and indignation of the people and of Cæsar; the other feared to
   disappoint one woman alone.

   And these wishes which are hindered, not by impossibility, but by
   incompatibility with stronger desires, are called indeed wishes and
   desires, but vain, stifled and unprofitable ones. As to wishes of
   things impossible, we say: I wish, but cannot; and of the wishes of
   possible things we say: I wish, but will not.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   WHAT KIND OF AFFINITY (CONVENANCE) IT IS WHICH EXCITES LOVE.

   We say the eye sees, the ear hears, the tongue speaks, the
   understanding reasons, the memory remembers, the will loves: but still
   we know well that it is the man, to speak properly, who by divers
   faculties and different organs works all this variety of operations.
   Man also then it is who by the affective faculty named the will tends
   to and pleases himself in good, and who has for it that great affinity
   which is the source and origin of love. Now they have made a mistake
   who have believed that resemblance is the only affinity which produces
   love. For who knows not that the most sensible old men tenderly and
   dearly love little children, and are reciprocally loved by them; that
   the wise love the ignorant, provided they are docile, and the sick
   their physicians. And if we may draw any argument from the image of
   love which is found in things without sense, what resemblance can draw
   the iron towards the loadstone? Has not one loadstone more resemblance
   with another or with another stone, than with iron which is of a
   totally different species? And though some, to reduce all affinities to
   resemblance, assure us that iron draws iron and the loadstone the
   loadstone, yet they are unable to explain why the loadstone draws iron
   more powerfully than iron does iron itself. But I pray you what
   similitude is there between lime and water? or between water and a
   sponge? and yet both of them drink water with a quenchless desire,
   testifying an excessive insensible love towards it. Now it is the same
   in human love; for sometimes it takes more strongly amongst persons of
   contrary qualities, than among those who are very like. The affinity
   then which causes love does not always consist in resemblance, but in
   the proportion, relation or correspondence between the lover and the
   thing loved. For thus it is not resemblance which makes the doctor dear
   to the sick man, but a correspondence of the one's necessity with the
   other's sufficiency, in that the one can afford the assistance which
   the other stands in need of: as again the doctor loves the sick man,
   and the master his apprentice because they can exercise their powers on
   them. The old man loves children, not by sympathy, but because the
   great simplicity, feebleness and tenderness of the one exalts and makes
   more apparent the prudence and stability of the other, and this
   dissimilitude is agreeable. On the other hand, children love old men
   because they see them busy and careful about them, and by secret
   instinct they perceive they have need of their direction. Musical
   concord consists in a kind of discord, in which unlike voices
   correspond, making up altogether one single multiplex proportion, as
   the unlikeness of precious stones and flowers makes the agreeable
   composition of enamel and diapry. Thus love is not caused always by
   resemblance and sympathy, but by correspondence and proportion, which
   consists in this that by the union of one thing to another they
   mutually receive one another's perfection, and so become better. The
   head certainly does not resemble the body, nor the hand the arm, yet
   they have such a correspondence and join so naturally together that by
   their conjunction they excellently perfect one the other. Wherefore, if
   these parts had each one a distinct soul they would have a perfect
   mutual love, not by resemblance, for they have none, but by their
   correspondence towards a mutual perfection. For this cause the
   melancholy and the joyous, the sour and the sweet, have often a
   correspondence of affection, by reason of the mutual impressions which
   they receive one of another by which their humours are reciprocally
   moderated.

   But when this mutual correspondence is joined with resemblance, love
   without doubt is engendered much more efficaciously; for resemblance
   being the true image of unity, when two like things are united by a
   proportion to the same end it seems rather to be unity than union.

   The affinity then of the lover and the thing loved is the first source
   of love, and this affinity consists in correspondence, which is nothing
   else than a mutual relation, which makes things apt to unite in order
   to communicate to one another some perfection. But this will be
   understood better in the progress of our discourse.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   THAT LOVE TENDS TO UNION.

   The great Solomon describes, in an admirably delicious manner, the
   loves of the Saviour and the devout soul, in that divine work which for
   its excellent sweetness is named the Canticle of Canticles. And to
   raise ourselves by a more easy flight to the consideration of this
   spiritual love which is exercised between God and us by the
   correspondence of the movements of our hearts with the inspirations of
   his divine majesty, he makes use of a perpetual representation of the
   loves of a chaste shepherd and a modest shepherdess. Now making the
   spouse or bride begin first by manner of a certain surprise of love, he
   first puts into her mouth this ejaculation: Let him kiss me with the
   kiss of his mouth. [30] Notice, Theotimus, how the soul, in the person
   of this shepherdess, has but the one aim, in the first expression of
   her desire, of a chaste union with her spouse, protesting that it is
   the only end of her ambition and the only thing she aspires after; for,
   I pray you, what other thing would this first sigh intimate? Let him
   kiss me with the kiss of his mouth.

   A kiss from all ages as by natural instinct has been employed to
   represent perfect love, that is, the union of hearts, and not without
   cause: we express and make known our passions and the movements which
   our souls have in common with the animals, by our eyes, eyebrows,
   forehead and the rest of our countenance. Man is known by his look,
   [31] says the Scripture, and Aristotle giving a reason why ordinarily
   it is only the faces of great men that are portrayed,--it is, says he,
   because the face shows what we are.

   Yet we do not utter our discourse nor the thoughts which proceed from
   the spiritual portion of our soul, which we call reason, and by which
   we are distinguished from beasts, except by words, and consequently by
   help of the mouth; insomuch that to pour out our soul and open out our
   heart is nothing else but to speak. Pour out your hearts before God,
   [32] says the Psalmist, that is, express and turn the affections of
   your hearts into words. And Samuel's pious mother pronouncing her
   prayers so softly that one could hardly discern the motion of her lips:
   I have poured out my soul before the Lord, [33] said she. And thus one
   mouth is applied to another in kissing to testify that we would desire
   to pour out one soul into the other, to unite them reciprocally in a
   perfect union. For this reason, at all times and amongst the most
   saintly men the world has had, the kiss has been a sign of love and
   affection, and such use was universally made of it amongst the ancient
   Christians as the great S. Paul testifies, when, writing to the Romans
   and Corinthians, he says, Salute one another in a holy kiss. [34] And
   as many declare, Judas in betraying Our Saviour made use of a kiss to
   manifest him, because this divine Saviour was accustomed to kiss his
   disciples when he met them; and not only his disciples but even little
   children, whom he took lovingly in his arms; as he did him by whose
   example he so solemnly invited his disciples to the love of their
   neighbour, whom many think to have been S. Martial, as the Bishop
   Jansenius [35] says.

   Thus then the kiss being a lively mark of the union of hearts, the
   spouse who has no other aim in all her endeavours than to be united to
   her beloved, Let him kiss me, says she, with the kiss of his mouth; as
   if she cried out:--so many sighs and inflamed darts which my love
   throws out will they never impetrate that which my soul desires? I
   run--Ah! shall I never gain the prize towards which I urge myself,
   which is to be united heart to heart, spirit to spirit, to my God, my
   spouse my life? When will the hour come in which I shall pour my soul
   into his heart, and he will pour his heart into my soul, and thus
   happily united we shall live inseparable.

   When the Holy Ghost would express a perfect love, he almost always
   employs words expressing union or conjunction. And the multitude of
   believers, says S. Luke, had but one heart and one soul. [36] Our
   Saviour prayed for all the faithful that they all may be one. [37] S.
   Paul warns us to be careful to preserve the unity of the spirit in the
   bond of peace." [38] These unities of heart, of soul, and of spirit
   signify the perfection of love which joins many souls in one. So it is
   said that Jonathan's soul was knit to David's, that is to say, as the
   Scripture adds, He loved him as his own soul.1 [39] The great Apostle
   of France (S. Denis) as well according to his own sentiment as when
   giving that of his Hierotheus, writes a hundred times, I think, in a
   single chapter of the De Nominibus Divinis, that love is unifying,
   uniting, drawing together, embracing, collecting and bringing all
   things to unity! S. Gregory Nazianzen and S. Augustine say that their
   friends and they had but one soul, and Aristotle approving already in
   his time this manner of speech: "When," says he, "we would express how
   much we love our friends, we say his and my soul is but one." Hatred
   separates us, and love brings us into one. The end then of love is no
   other thing than the union of the lover and the thing loved.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [30] Cant. i. 1.

   [31] Eccli. xix. 26.

   [32] lxi. 9.

   [33] 1 Kings i. 15.

   [34] Rom. xvi. 16; 1 Cor. xvi. 20.

   [35] Of Ghent, uncle of the heretic, but himself an orthodox and
   esteemed writer. (Tr.)

   [36] Acts iv. 32.

   [37] John xvii. 21.

   [38] Eph. iv. 3.

   [39] Kings xviii. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   THAT THE UNION TO WHICH LOVE ASPIRES IS SPIRITUAL.

   We must, however, take notice that there are natural unions, as those
   of similitude, consanguinity, and of cause and effect; and others which
   not being natural may be termed voluntary; for though they be according
   to Nature yet they are only made at our will: like that union which
   takes its origin from benefits--which undoubtedly unite him that
   receives them to the giver,--that of conversation, society and the
   like. Now natural union produces love, and the love which it produces
   inclines us to another and voluntary union, perfecting the natural.
   Thus the father and son, the mother and daughter, or two brothers,
   being joined in a natural union by the participation of the same blood,
   are excited by this union to love, and by love are borne towards a
   union of will and spirit which may be called voluntary, because
   although its foundation is natural, yet is its action deliberate. In
   these loves produced by natural union we need look for no other
   affinity than the union itself, by which Nature preventing the will,
   obliges it to approve, to love, and to perfect the union it has already
   made. But as to voluntary unions, which follow love, love is indeed
   their effective cause, but they are its final cause, as being the only
   end and aim of love. So that as love tends to union, even so union very
   often extends and augments love: for love makes us seek the society of
   the beloved, and this often nourishes and increases love; love causes a
   desire of nuptial union, and this union reciprocally preserves and
   increases love, so that in every sense it is true that love tends to
   union.

   But to what kind of union does it tend? Did you not note, Theotimus,
   that the sacred spouse expressed her desire of being united to her
   spouse by the kiss, and that the kiss represents the spiritual union
   which is caused by the reciprocal communication of souls? It is indeed
   the man who loves, but he loves by his will, and therefore the end of
   his love is of the nature of his will: but his will is spiritual, and
   consequently the union which love aims at is spiritual also, and so
   much the more because the heart, which is the seat and source of love,
   would not only not be perfected by union with corporal things, but
   would be degraded.

   It will not hence be inferred that there are not certain passions in
   man which, as mistleto comes on trees by manner of excrescence and
   over-growth, sprout up indeed amongst and about love. Nevertheless they
   are neither love, nor any part of love, but excrescences and
   superfluities thereof, which are so far from being suited to maintain
   or perfect love, that on the contrary they greatly harm it, weaken it,
   and at last, if they be not cut away, utterly ruin it: and here is the
   reason.

   In proportion to the number of operations to which the soul applies
   herself (whether of the same or of a different kind) she does them less
   perfectly and vigorously: because being finite, her active virtue is
   also finite, so that furnishing her activity to divers operations it is
   necessary that each one of them have less thereof. Thus a man attentive
   to several things is less attentive to each of them: we cannot quietly
   consider a person's features with our sight, and at the same time give
   an exact hearing to the harmony of a grand piece of music, nor at the
   same instant be attentive to figure and to colour: if we are talking
   earnestly, we cannot attend to anything else.

   I am not ignorant of what is said concerning Caesar nor incredulous
   about what so many great persons testify of Origen,--that they could
   apply their attention at the same time to several objects; yet every
   one confesses that according to the measure they applied it to more
   objects it became less for each one of them. There is then a difference
   between seeing, hearing and understanding more, and seeing, hearing,
   and understanding better, for he that sees better, sees less, and he
   that sees more, sees not so well: it is rare for those who know much to
   know well what they know, because the virtue and force of the
   understanding being scattered upon the knowledge of divers things is
   less strong and vigorous than when it is restrained to the
   consideration of one only object. Hence it is that when the soul
   employs her forces in divers operations of love, the action so divided
   is less vigorous and perfect. We have three sorts of actions of love,
   the spiritual, the reasonable, and the sensitive; when love exerts its
   forces through all these three operations, doubtless it is more
   extended but less intense, but when through one operation only, it is
   more intense though less extended. Do we not see that fire, the symbol
   of love, forced to make its way out by the mouth of the cannon alone,
   makes a prodigious flash, which would have been much less if it had
   found vent by two or three passages? Since then love is an act of our
   will, he that desires to have it, not only noble and generous, but also
   very vigorous and active, must contain the virtue and force of it
   within the limits of spiritual operations, for he that would apply it
   to the operations of the sensible or sensitive part of our soul, would
   so far forth weaken the intellectual operations, in which essential
   love consists.

   The ancient philosophers have recognized that there are two sorts of
   ecstasies of which the one raises us above ourselves, the other
   degrades us below ourselves: as though they would say that man was of a
   nature between angels and beasts: in his intellectual part sharing the
   angelical nature, and in his sensitive the nature of beasts; and yet
   that he could by the acts of his life and by a continual attention to
   himself, deliver and emancipate himself from this mean condition, and
   habituating himself much to intellectual actions might bring himself
   nearer to the nature of angels than of beasts. If however he did much
   apply himself to sensible actions, he descended from his middle state
   and approached that of beasts: and because an ecstasy is no other thing
   than a going out of oneself, whether one go upwards or downwards he is
   truly in an ecstasy. Those then who, touched with intellectual and
   divine pleasures, let their hearts be carried away by those feelings,
   are truly out of themselves, that is, above the condition of their
   nature, but by a blessed and desirable out-going, by which entering
   into a more noble and eminent estate, they are as much angels by the
   operation of their soul as men by the substance of their nature, and
   are either to be called human angels or angelic men. On the contrary,
   those who, allured by sensual pleasures give themselves over to the
   enjoying of them, descend from their middle condition to the lowest of
   brute beasts, and deserve as much to be called brutal by their
   operations as men by nature: miserable in thus going out of themselves
   only to enter into a condition infinitely unworthy of their natural
   state.

   Now according as the ecstasy is greater, either above us or below us,
   by so much more it hinders the soul from returning to itself, and from
   doing operations contrary to the ecstasy in which it is. So those
   angelic men who are ravished in God and heavenly things, lose
   altogether, as long as their ecstasy lasts, the use and attention of
   the senses, movement, and all exterior actions, because their soul, in
   order to apply its power and activity more entirely and attentively to
   that divine object, retires and withdraws them from all its other
   faculties, to turn them in that direction. And in like manner brutish
   men give up all the use of their reason and understanding to bury
   themselves in sensual pleasure. The first mystically imitate Elias
   taken up in the fiery chariot amid the angels: the others
   Nabuchodonosor brutalized and debased to the rank of savage beasts.

   Now I say that when the soul practises love by actions which are
   sensual, and which carry her below herself, it is impossible that
   thereby the exercise of her superior love, should not be so much the
   more weakened. So that true and essential love is so far from being
   aided and preserved by the union to which sensual love tends, that it
   is impaired, dissipated and ruined by it. Job's oxen ploughed the
   ground, while the useless asses fed by them, eating the pasture due to
   the labouring oxen. While the intellectual part of our soul is employed
   in honest and virtuous love of some worthy object, it comes to pass
   oftentimes that the senses and faculties of the inferior part tend to
   the union which they are adapted to, and which is their pasture, though
   union only belongs to the heart and to the spirit, which also is alone
   able to produce true and substantial love.

   Eliseus having cured Naaman the Syrian was satisfied with having done
   him a service, and refused his gold, his silver and the goods he
   offered him, but his faithless servant Giezi, running after him,
   demanded and took, against his master's pleasure, that which he had
   refused. Intellectual and cordial love, which certainly either is or
   should be master in our heart, refuses all sorts of corporal and
   sensible unions, and is contented with goodwill only, but the powers of
   the sensitive part, which are or should be the handmaids of the spirit,
   demand, seek after and take that which reason refused, and without
   leave make after their abject and servile love, dishonouring, like
   Giezi, the purity of the intention of their master, the spirit. And in
   proportion as the soul turns herself to such gross and sensible unions,
   so far does she divert herself from the delicate, intellectual and
   cordial union.

   You see then plainly, Theotimus, that these unions which tend to animal
   complacency and passions are so far from producing or preserving love
   that they greatly hurt it and render it extremely weak.

   Basil, rosemary, marigold, hyssop, cloves, chamomile, nutmeg, lemon,
   and musk, put together and incorporated, yield a truly delightful odour
   by the mixture of their good perfume; yet not nearly so much as does
   the water which is distilled from them, in which the sweets of all
   these ingredients separated from their bodies are mingled in a much
   more excellent manner, uniting in a most perfect scent, which
   penetrates the sense of smelling far more strongly than it would do if
   with it and its water the bodies of the ingredients were found mingled
   and united. So love may be found in the unions proper to the sensual
   powers, mixed with the unions of intellectual powers, but never so
   excellently as when the spirits and souls alone, separated from all
   corporeal affections but united together, make love pure and spiritual.
   For the scent of affections thus mingled is not only sweeter and
   better, but more lively, more active and more essential.

   True it is that many having gross, earthly and vile hearts rate the
   value of love like that of gold pieces, the most massive of which are
   the best, and most current; for so their idea is that brutish love is
   more strong, because it is more violent and turbulent, more solid,
   because more gross and terrene, greater, because more sensible and
   fierce:--but on the contrary, love is like fire, which is of clearer
   and fairer flame as its matter is more delicate, which cannot be more
   quickly extinguished than by beating it down and covering it with
   earth; for, in like manner, by how much more exalted and spiritual the
   subject of love is, by so much its actions are more lively, subsistent
   and permanent: nor is there a more easy way to ruin love than to debase
   it to vile and earthly unions. "There is this difference," says S.
   Gregory, "between spiritual and corporal pleasures, that corporal ones
   beget a desire before we obtain them, and a disgust when we have
   obtained them; but spiritual ones, on the contrary, are not cared for
   when we have them not, but are desired when we have them."

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   THAT THERE ARE TWO PORTIONS IN THE SOUL, AND HOW.

   We have but one soul, Theotimus, and an indivisible one; but in that
   one soul there are various degrees of perfection, for it is living,
   sensible and reasonable; and according to these different degrees it
   has also different properties and inclinations by which it is moved to
   the avoidance or to the acceptance of things. For first, as we see that
   the vine hates, so to speak and avoids the cabbage, so that the one is
   pernicious to the other; and, on the contrary, is delighted in the
   olive:--so we perceive a natural opposition between man and the
   serpent, so great that a man's fasting spittle is mortal to the
   serpent: on the contrary, man and the sheep have a wondrous affinity,
   and are agreeable one to the other. Now this inclination does not
   proceed from any knowledge that the one has of the hurtfulness of its
   contrary, or of the advantage of the one with which it has affinity,
   but only from a certain occult and secret quality which produces this
   insensible opposition and antipathy, or this complacency and sympathy.

   Secondly, we have in us the sensitive appetite, whereby we are moved to
   the seeking and avoiding many things by the sensitive knowledge we have
   of them; not unlike to the animals, some of which have an appetite to
   one thing, some to another, according to the knowledge which they have
   that it suits them or not. In this appetite resides, or from it
   proceeds, the love which we call sensual or brutish, which yet properly
   speaking ought not to be termed love but simply appetite.

   Thirdly, inasmuch as we are reasonable, we have a will, by which we are
   led to seek after good, according as by reasoning we know or judge it
   to be such. Now in our soul, taken as reasonable, we manifestly observe
   two degrees of perfection, which the great S. Augustine, and after him
   all the doctors, have named two portions of the soul, inferior and
   superior. That is called inferior which reasons and draws conclusions
   according to what it learns and experiences by the senses; and that is
   called superior, which reasons and draws conclusions according to an
   intellectual knowledge not grounded upon the experience of sense, but
   on the discernment and judgment of the spirit. This superior part is
   called the spirit and mental part of the soul, as the inferior is
   termed commonly, sense, feeling, and human reason.

   Now this superior part can reason according to two sorts of lights;
   either according to natural light, as the philosophers and all those
   who have reasoned by science did; or according to supernatural light,
   as do theologians and Christians, since they establish their reasoning
   upon faith and the revealed word of God, and still more especially
   those whose spirit is conducted by particular illustrations,
   inspirations, and heavenly motions. This is what S. Augustine said,
   namely, that it is by the superior portion of the soul that we adhere
   and apply ourselves to the observance of the eternal law.

   Jacob, pressed by the extreme necessity of his family, let Benjamin be
   taken by his brethren into Egypt, which yet he did against his will, as
   the sacred History witnesses. In this he shows two wills, the one
   inferior, by which he grieved at sending him, the other superior, by
   which he took the resolution to part with him. For the reason which
   moved him to disapprove his departure was grounded on the pleasure
   which he felt in his presence and the pain he would feel in his
   absence, which are grounds that touch the senses and the feelings, but
   the resolution which he took to send him, was grounded upon the reason
   of the state of his family, from his foreseeing future and imminent
   necessities. Abraham, according to the inferior portion of his soul
   spoke words testifying in him a kind of diffidence when the angel
   announced unto him the happy tidings of a son. Shall a son, thinkest
   thou, be born to him that is a hundred years old? [40] but according,
   to his superior part he believed in God and it was reputed to him unto
   justice. [41] According to his inferior part, doubtless he was in great
   anguish when he was commanded to sacrifice his son: but according to
   his superior part he resolved courageously to sacrifice him.

   We also daily experience in ourselves various contrary wills. A father
   sending his son either to court or to his studies, does not deny tears
   to his departure, testifying, that though according to his superior
   part, for the child's advancement in virtue, he wills his departure,
   yet according to his inferior part he has a repugnance to the
   separation. Again, though a girl be married to the contentment of her
   father and mother, yet when she takes their blessing she excites their
   tears, in such sort that though the superior will acquiesces in the
   departure, yet the inferior shows resistance. We must not hence infer
   that a man has two souls or two natures, as the Manicheans dreamed. No,
   says S. Augustine, in the 8th book, 10th chapter, of his Confessions,
   "but the will inticed by different baits, moved by different reasons,
   seems to be divided in itself while it is pulled two ways, until,
   making use of its liberty, it chooses the one or the other: for then
   the more efficacious will conquers, and gaining the day, leaves in the
   soul the feeling of the evil that the struggle caused her, which we
   call reluctance (contrecoeur)."

   But the example of our Saviour is admirable in this point, and being
   considered it leaves no further doubt touching the distinction of the
   superior and inferior part of the soul. For who amongst theologians
   knows not that he was perfectly glorious from the instant of his
   conception in his virgin-mother's womb, and yet at the same time he was
   subject to sadness, grief, and afflictions of heart. Nor must we say he
   suffered only in the body, or only in the soul as sensitive, or, which
   is the same thing, according to sense: for he attests himself that
   before he suffered any exterior torment, or saw the tormentors near
   him, his soul was sorrowful even unto death. For which cause he prayed
   that the cup of his passion might pass away from him, that is, that he
   might be excused from drinking it; in which he manifestly shows the
   desire of the inferior portion of his soul; which, dwelling upon the
   sad and agonizing objects of the passion which was prepared for him
   (the lively image whereof was represented to his imagination), he
   desired, by a most reasonable consequence, the deliverance and escape
   from them, which he begs from his Father. By this we clearly see that
   the inferior part of the soul is not the same thing as the sensitive
   degree of it, nor the inferior will the same with the sensitive
   appetite; for neither the sensitive appetite, nor the soul insomuch as
   it is sensitive, is capable of making any demand or prayer, these being
   acts of the reasonable power; and they are, specially, incapable of
   speaking to God, an object which the senses cannot reach, so as to make
   it known to the appetite. But the same Saviour, having thus exercised
   the inferior part, and testified that according to it and its
   considerations his will inclined to the avoidance of the griefs and
   pains, showed afterwards that he had the superior part, by which
   inviolably adhering to the eternal will, and to the decree made by his
   heavenly Father, he willingly accepted death, and in spite of the
   repugnance of the inferior part of reason, he said: Ah! no, my Father,
   not my will, but thine be done. When he says my will, he speaks of his
   will according to the inferior portion, and inasmuch an he says it
   voluntarily, he shows that he has a superior will.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [40] Gen. xvii. 17.

   [41] Ib. xv. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   THAT IN THESE TWO PORTIONS OF THE SOUL THERE ARE FOUR DIFFERENT DEGREES
   OF REASON.

   There were three courts in Solomon's temple. One was for the Gentiles
   and strangers who, wishing to have recourse to God, went to adore in
   Jerusalem; the second for the Israelites, men and women (the separation
   of men from women not being made by Solomon); the third for the priests
   and Levites; and in fine, besides all this, there was the sanctuary or
   sacred house, which was open to the high priest only, and that but once
   a year. Our reason, or, to speak better, our soul in so far as it is
   reasonable, is the true temple of the great God, who there takes up his
   chief residence. "I sought thee," says S. Augustine, "outside myself,
   but I found thee not, because thou art within me." In this mystical
   temple there are also three courts, which are three different degrees
   of reason; in the first we reason according to the experience of sense,
   in the second according to human sciences, in the third according to
   faith: and in fine, beyond this, there is a certain eminence or supreme
   point of the reason and spiritual faculty, which is not guided by the
   light of argument or reasoning, but by a simple view of the
   understanding and a simple movement of the will, by which the spirit
   bends and submits to the truth and the will of God.

   Now this extremity and summit of our soul, this highest point of our
   spirit, is very naturally represented by the sanctuary or holy place.
   For, first, in the sanctuary there were no windows to give light: in
   this degree of the soul there is no reasoning which illuminates.
   Secondly, all the light entered by the door; in this degree of the soul
   nothing enters but by faith, which produces, like rays, the sight and
   the sentiment of the beauty and goodness of the good pleasure of God.
   Thirdly, none entered the sanctuary save the high priest; in this apex
   of the soul reasoning enters not, but only the high, universal and
   sovereign feeling that the divine will ought sovereignly to be loved,
   approved and embraced, not only in some particular things but in
   general for all things, nor generally in all things only, but also
   particularly in each thing. Fourthly, the high priest entering into the
   sanctuary obscured even that light which came by the door, putting many
   perfumes into his thurible, the smoke whereof drove back the rays of
   light to which the open door gave entrance: and all the light which is
   in the supreme part of the soul is in some sort obscured and veiled by
   the renunciations and resignations which the soul makes, not desiring
   so much to behold and see the goodness of the truth and the truth of
   the goodness presented to her, as to embrace and adore the same, so
   that the soul would almost wish to shut her eyes as soon as she begins
   to see the dignity of God's will, to the end that not occupying herself
   further in considering it, she may more powerfully and perfectly accept
   it, and by an absolute complacency perfectly unite and submit herself
   thereto. Fifthly, to conclude, in the sanctuary was kept the ark of
   alliance, and in that, or at least adjoining to it, the tables of the
   law, manna in a golden vessel, and Aaron's rod which in one night bore
   flowers and fruit: and in this highest point of the soul are found:  1.
   The light of faith, figured by the manna hidden in its vessel, by which
   we acquiesce in the truths of the mysteries which we do not
   understand.  2. The utility of hope, represented by Aaron's flowering
   and fruitful rod, by which we acquiesce in the promises of the goods
   which we see not.  3. The sweetness of holy charity, represented by
   God's commandments which charity contains, by which we acquiesce in the
   union of our spirit with God's, which we scarcely perceive.

   For although faith, hope and charity spread out their divine movements
   into almost all the faculties of the soul, as well reasonable as
   sensitive, reducing and holily subjecting them to their just authority,
   yet their special residence, their true and natural dwelling, is in
   this supreme region of the soul, from whence as from a happy source of
   living water, they run out by divers conduits and brooks upon the
   inferior parts and faculties.

   So that, Theotimus, in the superior part of reason there are two
   degrees of reason. In the one those discourses are made which depend on
   faith and supernatural light, in the other the simple acquiescings of
   faith, hope and charity. Saint Paul's soul found itself pressed by two
   different desires, the one to be delivered from his body, so as to go
   to heaven with Jesus Christ, the other to remain in this world to
   labour in the conversion of souls; both these desires were without
   doubt in the superior part, for they both proceeded from charity, but
   his resolution to follow the latter proceeded not from reasoning but
   from a simple sight, seeing and loving his master's will, in which the
   superior point alone of the spirit acquiesced, putting on one side all
   that reasoning might conclude.

   But if faith, hope and charity be formed by this holy acquiescence in
   the point of the spirit, how can reasonings which depend on the light
   of faith be made in the inferior part of the soul? As, Theotimus, we
   see that barristers dispute with many arguments on the acts and rights
   of parties to a suit, and that the high parliament or senate settles
   all the strife by a positive sentence, though even after this is
   pronounced the advocates and auditors do not give up discoursing among
   themselves the motives parliament may have had:--even so, after
   reasoning, and above all the grace of God have persuaded the point and
   highest part of the spirit to acquiesce, and make the act of faith
   after the manner of a sentence or judgment, the understanding does not
   at once cease discoursing upon that same act of faith already
   conceived, to consider the motives and reasons thereof. But always the
   arguments of theology are stated at the pleading place and bar of the
   superior portion of the soul, but the acquiescence is given above, on
   the bench and tribunal of the point of the spirit. Now, because the
   knowledge of these four degrees of the reason is much required for
   understanding all treatises on spiritual things, I have thought well to
   explain it rather fully.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   ON THE DIFFERENCE OF LOVES.

   Love is divided into two species, whereof one is called love of
   benevolence (or goodwill) the other of cupidity (convoitise). The love
   of cupidity is that by which we love something for the profit we expect
   from it. Love of benevolence is that by which we love a thing for its
   own good. For what other thing is it to have the love of benevolence
   for any one than to wish him good.

   If he to whom we wish good have it already and possesses it, then we
   wish it him by the pleasure and contentment which we have to see him
   possessed of it, and hence springs the love of complacency, which is
   simply an act of the will by which it is joined and united to the
   pleasure, content and good of another. But in case he to whom we wish
   good have not yet obtained it we desire it him, and hence that love is
   termed love of desire.

   When the love of benevolence is exercised without correspondence on the
   part of the beloved, it is called the love of simple benevolence; but
   when it is practised with mutual correspondence, it is called the love
   of friendship. Now mutual correspondence consists in three things;
   friends must love one another, know that they love one another, and
   have communication, intimacy and familiarity with one another.

   If we love a friend without preferring him before others, the
   friendship is simple; if we prefer him, then this friendship will be
   called dilection, as if we said love of election, because we choose
   this from amongst many things we love, and prefer it.

   Again, when by this dilection we do not much prefer one friend before
   others it is called simple dilection, but when, on the contrary, we
   much more esteem and greatly prefer one friend before others of his
   kind, then this friendship is called dilection by excellence.

   If the esteem and preference of our friend, though great and without
   equal, do yet enter into comparison and proportion with others, the
   friendship will be called eminent dilection, but if the eminence of it
   be, beyond proportion and comparison, above every other, then it is
   graced with the title of incomparable, sovereign and supereminent
   dilection, and in a word it will be charity, which is due to the one
   God only. And indeed in our language the words cher, cherement,
   encherir, [42] represent a certain particular esteem, prize or value,
   so that as amongst the people the word man is almost appropriated to
   the male-kind as to the more excellent sex, and the word adoration is
   almost exclusively kept for God as for its proper object, so the name
   of Charity has been kept for the love of God as for supreme and
   sovereign dilection.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [42] Meaning dear, dearly, to endear. The Saint's argument cannot be
   given in English. It rests on the connection between cher and charité,
   like the Latin carus and caritas. (Tr.)
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   THAT CHARITY MAY BE NAMED LOVE.

   Origin says somewhere [43] that in his opinion the Divine Scripture
   wishing to hinder the word love from giving occasion of evil thoughts
   to the weak, as being more proper to signify a carnal passion than a
   spiritual affection, instead of this name of love has used the words
   charity and dilection, which are more honest. But S. Augustine having
   deeply weighed the use of God's word clearly shows that the name love
   is no less sacred than the word dilection, and that the one and the
   other signify sometimes a holy affection and sometimes also a depraved
   passion, alleging to this purpose different passages of Holy Scripture.
   But the great S. Denis, as excelling doctor of the proper use of the
   divine names, goes much further in favour of the word love, teaching
   that theologians, that is, the Apostles and their first disciples (for
   this saint knew no other theologians) to disabuse the common people,
   and break down their error in taking the word love in a profane and
   carnal sense, more willingly employed it in divine things than that of
   dilection; and, though they considered that both might be used for the
   same thing, yet some of them were of opinion that the word love was
   more proper and suitable to God than the word dilection. Hence the
   divine Ignatius wrote these words: "My love is crucified." And as these
   ancient theologians made use of the word love in divine things to free
   it from the taint of impurity of which it was suspected according to
   the imagination of the world, so to express human affections they liked
   to use the word dilection as exempt from all suspicion of impropriety.
   Wherefore one of them, as S. Denis reports, said: "Thy dilection has
   entered into my soul like the dilection of women." [44] In fine the
   word love signifies more fervour, efficacy, and activity than that of
   dilection, so that amongst the Latins dilection is much less
   significative than love: "Clodius," says their great orator, "bears me
   dilection, and to say it more excellently, he loves me." Therefore the
   word love, as the most excellent, has justly been given to charity, as
   to the chief and most eminent of all loves; so that for all these
   reasons, and because I intend to speak of the acts of charity rather
   than of its habit, I have entitled this little work, A Treatise of the
   Love of God.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [43] Hom. I. in Can.

   [44] De Div. Nom. iv. § 12. The reference, of course, is to 2 Kings i.
   26. S. Francis is careful to quote S. Denis, who used the Septuagint
   text, agapesis. The Vulgate does not mark the difference. (Tr.)
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XV.

   OF THE AFFINITY THERE IS BETWEEN GOD AND MAN.

   As soon as man thinks with even a little attention of the divinity, he
   feels a certain delightful emotion of the heart, which testifies that
   God is God of the human heart; and our understanding is never so filled
   with pleasure as in this thought of the divinity, the smallest
   knowledge of which, as says the prince of philosophers, is worth more
   than the greatest knowledge of other things; as the least beam of the
   sun is more luminous than the greatest of the moon or stars, yea is
   more luminous than the moon and stars together. And if some accident
   terrifies our heart, it immediately has recourse to the Divinity,
   protesting thereby that when all other things fail him, It alone stands
   his friend, and that when he is in peril, It only, as his sovereign
   good, can save and secure him.

   This pleasure, this confidence which man's heart naturally has in God,
   can spring from no other root than the affinity there is between this
   divine goodness and man's soul, a great but secret affinity, an
   affinity which each one knows but few understand, an affinity which
   cannot be denied nor yet be easily sounded. We are created to the image
   and likeness of God:--what does this mean but that we have an extreme
   affinity with his divine majesty?

   Our soul is spiritual, indivisible, immortal; understands and wills
   freely, is capable of judging, reasoning, knowing, and of having
   virtues, in which it resembles God. It resides whole in the whole body,
   and whole in every part thereof, as the divinity is all in all the
   world, and all in every part thereof. Man knows and loves himself by
   produced and expressed acts of his understanding and will, which
   proceeding from the understanding and the will, and distinct from one
   another, yet are and remain inseparably united in the soul, and in the
   faculties from whence they proceed. So the Son proceeds from the Father
   as his knowledge expressed, and the Holy Ghost as love breathed forth
   and produced from the Father and the Son, both the Persons being
   distinct from one another and from the Father, and yet inseparable and
   united, or rather one same, sole, simple, and entirely one indivisible
   divinity.

   But besides this affinity of likenesses, there is an incomparable
   correspondence between God and man, for their reciprocal perfection:
   not that God can receive any perfection from man, but because as man
   cannot be perfected but by the divine goodness, so the divine goodness
   can scarcely so well exercise its perfection outside itself, as upon
   our humanity: the one has great want and capacity to receive good, the
   other great abundance and inclination to bestow it. Nothing is so
   agreeable to poverty as a liberal abundance, nor to a liberal abundance
   as a needy poverty, and by how much the good is more abundant, by so
   much more strong is the inclination to pour forth and communicate
   itself. By how much more the poor man is in want, so much the more
   eager is he to receive, as a void is to fill itself. The meeting then
   of abundance and indigence is most sweet and agreeable, and one could
   scarcely have said whether the abounding good have a greater
   contentment in spreading and communicating itself, or the failing and
   needy good in receiving and in drawing to itself, until Our Saviour had
   told us that it is more blessed to give than to receive. [45] Now where
   there is more blessedness there is more satisfaction, and therefore the
   divine goodness receives greater pleasure in giving than we in
   receiving.

   Mothers' breasts are sometimes so full that they must offer them to
   some child, and though the child takes the breast with great avidity,
   the nurse offers it still more eagerly, the child pressed by its
   necessity, and the mother by her abundance.

   The sacred spouse wished for the holy kiss of union: O, said she, let
   him kiss me with the kiss of his mouth. [46] But is there affinity
   enough, O well-beloved spouse of the well-beloved, between thee and thy
   loving one to bring to the union which thou desirest? Yes, says she:
   give me it; this kiss of union, O thou dear love of my heart: for thy
   breasts are better than wine, smelling sweet of the best ointment. New
   wine works and boils in itself by virtue of its goodness, and cannot be
   contained within the casks; but thy breasts are yet better, they press
   thee more strongly, and to draw the children of thy heart to them, they
   spread a perfume attractive beyond all the scent of ointments. Thus,
   Theotimus, our emptiness has need of the divine abundance by reason of
   its want and necessity, but God's abundance has no need of our poverty
   but by reason of the excellency of his perfection and goodness; a
   goodness which is not at all bettered by communication, for it acquires
   nothing in pouring itself out of itself, on the contrary it gives: but
   our poverty would remain wanting and miserable, if it were not enriched
   by the divine abundance.

   Our soul then seeing that nothing can perfectly content her, and that
   nothing the world can afford is able to fill her capacity, considering
   that her understanding has an infinite inclination ever to know more,
   and her will an insatiable appetite to love and find the good;--has she
   not reason to cry out: Ah! I am not then made for this world, there is
   a sovereign good on which I depend, some infinite workman who has
   placed in me this endless desire of knowing, and this appetite which
   cannot be appeased! And therefore I must tend and extend towards Him,
   to unite and join myself to the goodness of Him to whom I belong and
   whose I am! Such is the affinity between God and man's soul.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [45] Acts xx. 35.

   [46] Cant. i. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVI.

   THAT WE HAVE A NATURAL INCLINATION TO LOVE GOD ABOVE ALL THINGS.

   If there could be found any men who were in the integrity of original
   justice in which Adam was created, though otherwise not helped by
   another assistance from God than that which he affords to each
   creature, in order that it may be able to do the actions befitting its
   nature, such men would not only have an inclination to love God above
   all things but even naturally would be able to put into execution so
   just an inclination. For as this heavenly author and master of nature
   co-operates with and lends his strong hand to fire to spring on high,
   to water to flow towards the sea, to earth to sink down to its centre
   and stay there--so having himself planted in man's heart a special
   natural inclination not only to love good in general but to love in
   particular and above all things his divine goodness which is better and
   sweeter than all things--the sweetness of his sovereign providence
   required that he should contribute to these blessed men of whom we
   speak as much help as should be necessary to practise and effectuate
   that inclination. This help would be on the one hand natural, as being
   suitable to nature, and tending to the love of God as author and
   sovereign master of nature, and on the other hand it would be
   supernatural, because it would correspond not with the simple nature of
   man, but with nature adorned, enriched and honoured by original
   justice, which is a supernatural quality proceeding from a most special
   favour of God. But as to the love above all things which such help
   would enable these men to practise, it would be called natural, because
   virtuous actions take their names from their objects and motives, and
   this love of which we speak would only tend to God as acknowledged to
   be author, lord and sovereign of every creature by natural light only,
   and consequently to be amiable and estimable above all things by
   natural inclination and tendency.

   And although now our human nature be not endowed with that original
   soundness and righteousness which the first man had in his creation,
   but on the contrary be greatly depraved by sin, yet still the holy
   inclination to love God above all things stays with us, as also the
   natural light by which we see his sovereign goodness to be more worthy
   of love than all things; and it is impossible that one thinking
   attentively upon God, yea even by natural reasoning only, should not
   feel a certain movement of love which the secret inclination of our
   nature excites in the bottom of our hearts, by which at the first
   apprehension of this chief and sovereign object, the will is taken, and
   perceives itself stirred up to a complacency in it.

   It happens often amongst partridges that one steals away another's eggs
   with intention to sit on them, whether moved by greediness to become a
   mother, or by a stupidity which makes them mistake their own, and
   behold a strange thing, yet well supported by testimony!--the young one
   which was hatched and nourished under the wings of a stranger
   partridge, at the first call of the true mother, who had laid the egg
   whence she was hatched, quits the thief-partridge, goes back to the
   first mother, and puts herself in her brood, from the correspondence
   which she has with her first origin. Yet this correspondence appeared
   not, but remained secret, shut up and as it were sleeping in the bottom
   of nature, till it met with its object; when suddenly excited, and in a
   sort awakened, it produces its effect, and turns the young partridge's
   inclination to its first duty. It is the same, Theotimus, with our
   heart, which though it be formed, nourished and bred amongst corporal,
   base and transitory things, and in a manner under the wings of nature,
   notwithstanding, at the first look it throws on God, at its first
   knowledge of him, the natural and first inclination to love God which
   was dull and imperceptible, awakes in an instant, and suddenly appears
   as a spark from amongst the ashes, which touching our will gives it a
   movement of the supreme love due to the sovereign and first principle
   of all things.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVII.

   THAT WE HAVE NOT NATURALLY THE POWER TO LOVE GOD ABOVE ALL THINGS.

   Eagles have a great heart, and much strength of flight, yet they have
   incomparably more sight than flight, and extend their vision much
   quicker and further than their wings. So our souls animated with a holy
   natural inclination towards the divinity, have far more light in the
   understanding to see how lovable it is than force in the will to love
   it. Sin has much more weakened man's will than darkened his intellect,
   and the rebellion of the sensual appetite, which we call concupiscence,
   does indeed disturb the understanding, but still it is against the will
   that it principally stirs up sedition and revolt: so that the poor
   will, already quite infirm, being shaken with the continual assaults
   which concupiscence directs against it, cannot make so great progress
   in divine love as reason and natural inclination suggest to it that it
   should do.

   Alas! Theotimus, what fine testimonies not only of a great knowledge of
   God, but also of a strong inclination towards him, have been left by
   those great philosophers, Socrates, Plato, Trismegistus, Aristotle,
   Hippocrates, Seneca, Epictetus? Socrates, the most highly praised
   amongst them, came to the clear knowledge of the unity of God, and felt
   in himself such an inclination to love him, that as S. Augustine
   testifies, many were of opinion that he never had any other aim in
   teaching moral philosophy than to purify minds that they might better
   contemplate the sovereign good, which is the simple unity of the
   Divinity. And as for Plato, he sufficiently declares himself in his
   definition of philosophy and of a philosopher; saying that to do the
   part of a philosopher is nothing else but to love God, and that a
   philosopher is no other thing than a lover of God. What shall I say of
   the great Aristotle, who so efficaciously proves the unity of God and
   has spoken so honourably of it in so many places?

   But, O eternal God! those great spirits which had so great an
   inclination to love it, were all wanting in force and courage to love
   it well. By visible creatures they have known the invisible things of
   God, yea even his eternal power also and divinity, says the Apostle, so
   that they are inexcusable. Because that, when they knew God, they have
   not glorified him as God, or given thanks. [47] They glorified him
   indeed in some sort, attributing to him sovereign titles of honour, yet
   they did not glorify him as they ought, that is, they did not glorify
   him above all things; not having the courage to destroy idolatry, but
   communicating with idolators, detaining the truth which they knew in
   injustice, prisoner in their hearts, and preferring the honour and vain
   repose of their lives before the honour due unto God, they grew vain in
   their knowledge.

   Is it not a great pity, Theotimus, to see Socrates, as Plato reports,
   speak upon his deathbed concerning the gods as though there had been
   many, he knowing so well that there was but one only? Is it not a thing
   to be deplored that Plato who understood so clearly the truth of the
   divine unity should ordain that sacrifice should be offered to many
   gods? And is it not a lamentable thing that Mercury Trismegistus should
   so basely lament and grieve over the abolition of idolatry, who on so
   many occasions had spoken so worthily of the divinity? But above all I
   wonder at the poor good man Epictetus, whose words and sentences are so
   sweet in our tongue, in the translation which the learned and agreeable
   pen of the R. F. D. John of S. Francis, Provincial of the Congregation
   of the Feuillants in the Gauls, has recently put before us. For what a
   pity it is, I pray you, to see this excellent philosopher speak of God
   sometimes with such relish, feeling, and zeal that one would have taken
   him for a Christian coming from some holy and profound meditation, and
   yet again from time to time talking of gods after the Pagan manner!
   Alas! this good man, who knew so well the unity of God, and had so much
   delight in his goodness, why had he not the holy jealousy of the divine
   honour, so as not to stumble or dissemble in a matter of so great
   consequence?

   In a word, Theotimus, our wretched nature spoilt by sin, is like
   palm-trees in this land of ours, which indeed make some imperfect
   productions and as it were experiments of fruits, but to bear entire,
   ripe and seasoned dates--that is, reserved for hotter climates. For so
   our human heart naturally produces certain beginnings of God's love,
   but to proceed so far as to love him above all things, which is the
   true ripeness of the love due unto this supreme goodness,--this belongs
   only to hearts animated and assisted with heavenly grace, and which are
   in the state of holy charity. This little imperfect love of which
   nature by itself feels the stirrings, is but a will without will, a
   will that would but wills not, a sterile will, which does not produce
   true effects, a will sick of the palsy, which sees the healthful pond
   of holy love, but has not the strength to throw itself into it. To
   conclude, this will is an abortion of good will, which has not the life
   of generous strength necessary to effectually prefer God before all
   things. Whereupon the Apostle speaking in the person of the sinner,
   cries out: To will good is present with me, but to accomplish that
   which is good I find not. [48]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [47] Rom. i. 20.

   [48] Rom. vii. 18.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVIII.

   THAT THE NATURAL INCLINATION WHICH WE HAVE TO LOVE GOD IS NOT USELESS.

   But seeing we have not power naturally to love God above all things,
   why have we naturally an inclination to it? Is not nature vain to
   incite us to a love which she cannot bestow upon us? Why does she give
   us a thirst for a precious water of which she cannot give us to drink?
   Ah! Theotimus, how good God has been to us! The perfidy which we
   committed in offending him deserved truly that he should have deprived
   us of all the marks of his benevolence, and of the favour which he
   deigned to our nature when he imprinted upon it the light of his divine
   countenance, and gave to our hearts the joyfulness of feeling
   themselves inclined to the love of the divine goodness: so that the
   angels seeing this miserable man would have had occasion to say in
   pity: Is this the creature of perfect beauty, the joy of all the earth?
   [49]

   But this infinite clemency could never be so rigorous to the work of
   his hands; he saw that we were clothed with flesh a wind which goeth
   and returneth not, [50] and therefore according to the bowels of his
   mercy he would not utterly ruin us, nor deprive us of the sign of his
   lost grace, in order that seeing this, and feeling in ourselves this
   alliance, and this inclination to love him, we should strive to do so,
   that no one might justly say: Who showeth us good things? [51] For
   though by this sole natural inclination we cannot be so happy as to
   love God as we ought, yet if we employed it faithfully, the sweetness
   of the divine piety would afford us some assistance, by means of which
   we might make progress, and if we second this first assistance the
   paternal goodness of God would bestow upon us another greater, and
   conduct us from good to better in all sweetness, till he brought us to
   the sovereign love, to which our natural inclination impels us: since
   it is certain that to him who is faithful in a little, and who does
   what is in his power, the divine benignity never denies its assistance
   to advance him more and more.

   This natural inclination then which we have to love God above all
   things is not left for nothing in our hearts: for on God's part it is a
   handle by which he can hold us and draw us to himself;--and the divine
   goodness seems in some sort by this impression to keep our hearts tied
   as little birds in a string, by which he can draw us when it pleases
   his mercy to take pity upon us--and on our part it is a mark and
   memorial of our first principle and Creator, to whose love it moves us,
   giving us a secret intimation that we belong to his divine goodness;
   even as harts upon whom princes have had collars put with their arms,
   though afterwards they cause them to be let loose and run at liberty in
   the forest, do not fail to be recognized by any one who meets them not
   only as having been once taken by the prince whose arms they bear, but
   also as being still reserved for him. And in this way was known the
   extreme old age of a hart which according to some historians was taken
   three hundred years after the death of Cæsar; because there was found
   on him a collar with Cæsar's device upon it, and these words: Cæsar let
   me go.

   In truth the honourable inclination which God has left in our hearts
   testifies as well to our friends as to our enemies that we did not only
   sometime belong to our Creator, but furthermore, though he has left us
   and let us go at the mercy of our free will, that we still appertain to
   him, and that he has reserved the right of taking us again to himself,
   to save us, according as his holy and sweet providence shall require.
   Hence the royal prophet terms this inclination not only a light, in
   that it makes us see whither we are to tend, but also a joy and
   gladness, [52] for it comforts us when we stray, giving us a hope that
   he who engraved and left in us this clear mark of our origin intends
   also and desires to reduce and bring us back thither, if we be so happy
   as to let ourselves be retaken by his divine goodness.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [49] Lam. ii. 15.

   [50] Ps. lxxvii. 39.

   [51] Ps. iv. 6.

   [52] Ibid. 7.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

THE SECOND BOOK.

  THE HISTORY OF THE GENERATION AND HEAVENLY BIRTH OF DIVINE LOVE.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   THAT THE DIVINE PERFECTIONS ARE ONLY A SINGLE BUT INFINITE PERFECTION.

   When the sun rises red and soon after looks black, or hollow and sunk;
   or again when it sets wan, pale, and dull, we say it is a sign of rain.
   Theotimus, the sun is not red, nor black, nor grey, nor green: that
   great luminary is not subject to these vicissitudes and changes of
   colour, having for its sole colour its most clear and perpetual light
   which, unless by miracle, is invariable. But we use this manner of
   speaking, because it seems such to us, according to the variety of
   vapours interposed between him and our eyes, which make him appear in
   different ways.

   In like manner we discourse of God, not so much according to what he is
   in himself, as according to his works, by means of which we contemplate
   him; for according to our various considerations we name him variously,
   even as though he had a great multitude of different excellences and
   perfections. If we regard him inasmuch as he punishes the wicked, we
   term him just; if as he delivers sinners from their misery, we proclaim
   him merciful; since he has created all things and done many wonders, we
   name him omnipotent; as exactly fulfilling his promises we call him
   true; as ranging all things in so goodly an order we call him most
   wise; and thus, continuing and following the variety of his works, we
   attribute unto him a great diversity of perfections. But, all the time,
   in God there is neither variety, nor any difference whatever of
   perfections. He is himself one most sole, most simple and most
   indivisible, unique perfection: for all that is in him is but himself,
   and all the excellences which we say are in him in so great diversity
   are really there in a most simple and pure unity. And as the sun has
   none of the colours which we ascribe unto it, but one sole most clear
   light surpassing all colour, and giving colour to all colours,--so in
   God there is not one of those perfections which we imagine, but an only
   most pure excellence, which is above all perfection and gives
   perfection to all that is perfect. Now to assign a perfect name to this
   supreme excellence, which in its most singular unity comprehends, yea
   surmounts, all excellence, is not within the reach of the creature,
   whether human or angelic; for as is said in the Apocalypse: Our Lord
   has a name which no man knoweth but himself: [53] because as he only
   perfectly knows his own infinite perfection he also alone can express
   it by a suitable name. Whence the ancients have said that no one but
   God is a true theologian, as none but he can reach the full knowledge
   of the infinite greatness of the divine perfection, nor, consequently,
   represent it in words. And for this cause, God, answering by the angel
   Samson's father who demanded his name, said: Why asketh thou my name
   which is wonderful? [54] As though he had said: My name may be admired,
   but never pronounced by creatures; it must be adored, but cannot be
   comprehended save by me, who alone can pronounce the proper name by
   which truly and to the life I express my excellence. Our thoughts are
   too feeble to form a conception which should represent an excellence so
   immense, which comprehends in its most simple and most sole perfection,
   distinctly and perfectly, all other perfections in a manner infinitely
   excellent and eminent, to which our thoughts cannot raise themselves.
   We are forced, then, in order to speak in some way of God, to use a
   great number of names, saying that he is good, wise, omnipotent, true,
   just, holy, infinite, immortal, invisible;--and certainly we speak
   truly; God is all this together, because he is more than all this, that
   is to say, he is all this in so pure, so excellent and so exalted a
   way, that in one most simple perfection he contains the virtue, vigour
   and excellence of all perfection.

   In the same way, the manna was one meat, which, containing in itself
   the taste and virtue of all other meats, might have been said to have
   the taste of the lemon, the melon, the grape, the plum and the pear.
   Yet one might have said with still greater truth that it had not all
   these tastes, but one only, which was its own proper one, but which
   contained in its unity all that was agreeable and desirable in all the
   diversity of other tastes: like the herb dodecatheos, which, says
   Pliny, while curing all diseases, is nor rhubarb, nor senna, nor rose,
   nor clove, nor bugloss, but one simple, which in its own proper
   simplicity contains as much virtue as all other medicaments together. O
   abyss of the divine perfections! How admirable art thou, to possess in
   one only perfection the excellence of all perfection in so excellent a
   manner that none can comprehend it but thyself!

   We shall say much, says the Scripture, and yet shall want words: but
   the sum of our words is: He is all. What shall we be able to do to
   glorify him, for the Almighty himself is above all his works? The Lord
   is terrible, and exceeding great, and his power is admirable. Glorify
   the Lord as much as ever you can, for he will yet far exceed, and his
   magnificence is wonderful. Blessing the Lord, exalt him as much as you
   can: for he is above all praise. When you exalt him put forth all your
   strength, and be not weary: for you can never go far enough. [55] No,
   Theotimus, we can never comprehend him, since, as St. John says, he is
   greater than our heart. [56] Nevertheless, let every spirit praise the
   Lord, calling him by all the most eminent names which may be found, and
   for the greatest praise we can render unto him let us confess that
   never can he be sufficiently praised; and for the most excellent name
   we can attribute unto him let us protest that his name surpasses all
   names, nor can we worthily name him.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [53] Apoc. xix. 12.

   [54] Judges xiii. 18.

   [55] Ecclus. xliii. 29

   [56] 1 John iii. 20.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   THAT IN GOD THERE IS BUT ONE ONLY ACT, WHICH IS HIS OWN DIVINITY.

   There is in us great diversity of faculties and habits, which produce
   also a great variety of actions, and those actions an incomparable
   multitude of works. Thus differ the faculties of hearing, seeing,
   tasting, touching, moving, feeding, understanding, willing; and the
   habits of speaking, walking, playing, singing, sewing, leaping,
   swimming: as also the actions and works which issue from these
   faculties and habits are greatly different.

   But it is not the same in God; for in him there is one only most simple
   infinite perfection, and in that perfection one only most sole and most
   pure act: yea to speak more holily and sagely, God is one unique and
   most uniquely sovereign perfection, and this perfection is one sole
   most purely simple and most simply pure act, which being no other thing
   than the proper divine essence, is consequently ever permanent and
   eternal. Nevertheless poor creatures that we are, we talk of God's
   actions as though daily done in great number and variety, though we
   know the contrary. But our weakness, Theotimus, forces us to this; for
   our speech can but follow our understanding, and our understanding the
   customary order of things with us. Now, as in natural things there is
   hardly any diversity of works without diversity of actions, when we
   behold so many different works, such great variety of productions, and
   the innumerable multitude of the effects of the divine might, it seems
   to us at first that this diversity is caused by as many acts as we see
   different effects, and we speak of them in the same way, in order to
   speak more at our ease, according to our ordinary practice and our
   customary way of understanding things. And indeed we do not in this
   violate truth, for though in God there is no multitude of actions, but
   one sole act which is the divinity itself, yet this act is so perfect
   that it comprehends by excellence the force and virtue of all the acts
   which would seem requisite to the production of all the different
   effects we see.

   God spoke but one word, and in virtue of that in a moment were made the
   sun, moon and that innumerable multitude of stars, with their
   differences in brightness, motion and influence. He spoke and they were
   made. [57] A single word of God's filled the air with birds, and the
   sea with fishes, made spring from the earth all the plants and all the
   beasts we see. For although the sacred historian, accommodating himself
   to our fashion of understanding, recounts that God often repeated that
   omnipotent word: Let there be: according to the days of the world's
   creation, nevertheless, properly speaking, this word was singularly
   one; so that David terms it a breathing or spirit of the divine mouth;
   [58] that is, one single act of his infinite will, which so powerfully
   spreads its virtue over the variety of created things, that it makes us
   conceive this act as if it were multiplied and diversified into as many
   differences as there are in these effects, though in reality it is most
   simply and singularly one. Thus S. Chrysostom remarks that what Moses
   said in many words describing the creation of the world, the glorious
   S. John expressed in a single word, saying that by the word, that is by
   that eternal word who is the Son of God, all things were made. [59]

   This word then, Theotimus, whilst most simple and most single, produces
   all the distinction of things; being invariable produces all fit
   changes, and, in fine, being permanent in his eternity gives
   succession, vicissitude, order, rank and season to all things.

   Let us imagine, I pray you, on the one hand, a painter making a picture
   of Our Saviour's birth (and I write this in the days dedicated to this
   holy mystery). Doubtless he will give a thousand and a thousand touches
   with his brush, and will take, not only days, but weeks and months, to
   perfect this picture, according to the variety of persons and other
   things he wants to represent in it. But on the other hand, let us look
   at a printer of pictures, who having spread his sheet upon the plate
   which has the same mystery of the Nativity cut in it, gives but a
   single stroke of the press: in this one stroke, Theotimus, he will do
   all his work, and instantly he will draw off a picture representing in
   a fine engraving all that has been imagined, as sacred history records
   it. Now though with one movement he performed the work, yet it contains
   a great number of personages, and other different things, each one well
   distinguished in its order, rank, place, distance and proportion: so
   that one not acquainted with the secret would be astonished to see
   proceed from one act so great a variety of effects. In the same way,
   Theotimus, nature as a painter multiplies and diversifies her acts
   according as the works she has in hand are various, and it takes her a
   great time to finish great effects, but God, like the printer, has
   given being to all the diversity of creatures which have been, are, or
   shall be, by one only stroke of his omnipotent will. He draws from his
   idea as from a well cut plate, this admirable difference of persons and
   of things, which succeed one another in seasons, in ages, and in times,
   each one in its order, as they were to be. For this sovereign unity of
   the divine act is opposed to confusion and disorder, and not to
   distinction and variety; these on the contrary it purposely uses, to
   make beauty from them, by reducing all differences and diversities to
   proportion, proportion to order, and order to the unity of the world,
   which comprises all things created, visible and invisible. All these
   together are called the universe, perhaps because all their diversity
   is reduced to unity as though one said "unidiverse," that is, one and
   diverse, one with diversity and diverse with unity.

   To sum up, the sovereign divine unity diversifies all, and his
   permanent eternity gives change to all things, because the perfection
   of this unity being above all difference and variety, it has wherewith
   to furnish all the diversities of created perfections with their
   beings, and contains a virtue to produce them; in sign of which the
   Scripture having told us that God in the beginning said: Let there be
   lights made in the firmament of heaven, to divide the day and the
   night, and let them be for signs, and for seasons and for days and
   years, [60] --we see even to this day a perpetual revolution and
   succession of times and seasons which shall continue till the end of
   the world. So we learn that as he spoke and they were made, so the
   single eternal will of his divine Majesty extends its force from age to
   age, yea to ages of ages, to all that has been, is, or shall be
   eternally; and nothing at all has existence save by this sole most
   singular, most simple, and most eternal divine act, to which be honour
   and glory. Amen.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [57] Ps. cxlviii. 5.

   [58] Ps. xxxii. 6.

   [59] 1 John i. 3.

   [60] Gen. i. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   OF THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE IN GENERAL.

   God, then, Theotimus, needs not many acts, because one only divine act
   of his all-powerful will, by reason of its infinite perfection, is
   sufficient to produce all the variety of his works. But we mortals must
   treat them after the method and manner of understanding which our small
   minds can attain to; according to which, to speak of divine providence,
   let us consider, I pray you, the reign of the great Solomon, as a
   perfect model of the art of good government.

   This great king then, knowing by divine inspiration that the
   commonwealth is to religion as the body to the soul, and religion to
   the commonwealth as the soul to the body, disposed with himself all the
   parts requisite as well for the establishment of religion as of the
   commonwealth. As to religion, he determined that a temple must be
   erected of such and such length, breadth, and height, so many porches
   and courts, so many windows and thus of all the rest which belonged to
   the temple; then so many sacrificers, so many singers and other
   officers of the temple. And as for the commonwealth he determined to
   make a royal palace and court for his majesty, and in this so many
   stewards, so many gentlemen and other courtiers; and, for the people,
   judges, and other magistrates who were to execute justice further, for
   the assurance of the kingdom, and securing of the public peace which it
   enjoyed, he arranged to have in time of peace a powerful preparation
   for war, and to this effect two hundred and fifty commanders in various
   charges, forty thousand horses, and all that great equipage which the
   Scripture and historians record.

   Now having disposed and arranged in his mind all the principal things
   requisite for his kingdom, he came to the act of providing them, and
   thought out all that was necessary to construct the temple, to maintain
   the sacred officers, the royal ministers and magistrates, and the
   soldiers whom he intended to appoint, and resolved to send to Hiram for
   fit timber, to begin commerce with Peru [61] and Ophir, and to take all
   convenient means to procure all things requisite for the fulfilment and
   success of his undertaking. Neither stayed he there, Theotimus, for
   having made his project and deliberated with himself about the proper
   means to accomplish it, coming to the practice, he actually created
   officers as he had disposed, and by a good government caused provision
   to be made of all things requisite to carry out and to accomplish their
   charges. So that having the knowledge of the art of reigning well, he
   put it into practice, executed that disposition which he had made in
   his mind for the creation of officers of every sort, and provided in
   effect what he had seen it necessary to provide; and so his art of
   government which consisted in disposition, and in providence or
   foresight, was put into practice by the creation of officers and by
   actual government and good management. But inasmuch as the disposing is
   useless without the creation of officers, and creation also vain
   without that provident foresight which looks after what is needed to
   maintain the officers created or appointed; and since this maintaining
   by good government is nothing more than a providence put into effect,
   therefore not only the disposition but also the creation and good
   government of Solomon were called by the name of providence, nor do we
   indeed say that a man is provident unless he govern well.

   Now, Theotimus, speaking of heavenly things according to the impression
   we have gained by the consideration of human things, we affirm that
   God, having had an eternal and most perfect knowledge of the art of
   making the world for his glory, disposed before all things in his
   divine understanding all the principal parts of the universe which
   might render him honour; to wit, angelic and human nature,--and in the
   angelic nature the variety of hierarchies and orders, as the sacred
   Scripture and holy doctors teach us; as also among men he ordained that
   there should be that great diversity which we see. Further, in this
   same eternity he provided and determined in his mind all the means
   requisite for men and angels to come to the end for which he had
   ordained them, and so made the act of his providence; and not stopping
   there, he, in order to effect what he had disposed, really created
   angels and men, and to effect his providence he did and does by his
   government furnish reasonable creatures with all things necessary to
   attain glory, so that, to say it in a word, sovereign providence is no
   other thing than the act whereby God furnishes men or angels with the
   means necessary or useful for the obtaining of their end. But because
   these means are of different kinds we also diversify the name of
   providence, and say that there is one providence natural, another
   supernatural, and that the latter again is general, or special, or
   particular.

   And because hereafter, Theotimus, I shall exhort you to unite your will
   to God's providence, I would, while on this part of my subject, say a
   word about natural providence. God then, willing to provide men with
   the natural means necessary for them to render glory to the divine
   goodness, produced in their behalf all the other animals and the
   plants, and to provide for the other animals and the plants, he has
   produced a variety of lands, seasons, waters, winds, rains; and, as
   well for man as for the other things appertaining to him, he created
   the elements, the sky, the stars, ordaining in an admirable manner that
   almost all creatures should mutually serve one another. Horses carry
   us, and we care for them; sheep feed and clothe us, and we feed them;
   the earth sends vapours to the air; and the air rain to the earth; the
   hand serves the foot, and the foot the hand. O! he who should consider
   this general commerce and traffic which creatures have together, in so
   perfect a correspondence--with how strong an amorous passion for this
   sovereign wisdom would he be moved, crying out: Thy providence O great
   and eternal Father governs all things! [62] S. Basil and S. Ambrose in
   their Hexaemerons, the good Louis of Granada in his introduction to the
   Creed, and Louis Richeome in many of his beautiful works, will furnish
   ample motives to loving souls profitably to employ this consideration.

   Thus, dear Theotimus, this providence reaches all, reigns over all, and
   reduces all to its glory. There are indeed fortuitous cases and
   unexpected accidents, but they are only fortuitous or unexpected to us,
   and are of course most certain to the divine providence, which foresees
   them, and directs them to the general good of the universe. These
   accidents happen by the concurrence of various causes, which having no
   natural alliance one with the other, produce each of them its
   particular effect, but in such a way that from their concourse there
   issues another effect of a different nature, to which though one could
   not foresee it, all these different causes contributed. For example, it
   was reasonable to chastise the curiosity of the poet Æschylus, who
   being told by a diviner that he would perish by the fall of some house,
   kept himself all that day in the open country, to escape his fate, and
   as he was standing up bareheaded, a falcon which held in its claws a
   tortoise, seeing this bald head, and thinking it to be the point of a
   rock, let the tortoise fall upon it, and behold Æschylus dies
   immediately, crushed by the house and shell of a tortoise. This was
   doubtless a fortuitous accident, for this man did not go into the
   country to die, but to escape death, nor did the falcon dream of
   crushing a poet's head, but the head and shell of a tortoise to make
   itself master of the meat within: yet it chanced to the contrary, for
   the tortoise remained safe and poor Æschylus was killed. According to
   us this chance was unexpected, but in respect of the Divine providence
   which looked from above and saw the concurrence of causes, it was an
   act of justice punishing the superstition of the man. The adventures of
   Joseph of old were admirable in their variety and the way they passed
   from one extreme to the other. His brethren who to ruin him had sold
   him, were amazed to see that he had become viceroy, and were mightily
   apprehensive that he remained sensible of the wrong they had done him:
   but no said he: Not by your counsel was I sent hither, but by the will
   of God. You thought evil against me, but God turned it into good. [63]
   You see, Theotimus, the world would have termed this a chance, or
   fortuitous event, which Joseph called a design of the sovereign
   providence, which turns and reduces all to its service. It is the same
   with all things that happen in the world yea, even with monstrosities,
   whose birth makes complete and perfect works more esteemed, begets
   admiration, provokes discussion, and many good thoughts; in a word they
   are in the world as the shades in pictures, which give grace and seem
   to bring out the colours.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [61] According to the opinion not uncommon in. S. Francis's day. (Tr.)

   [62] Wisdom xiv. 3.

   [63] Gen. xlv. 8; l. 20.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   OF THE SUPERNATURAL PROVIDENCE WHICH GOD USES TOWARDS REASONABLE
   CREATURES

   All God's works are ordained to the salvation of men and angels; and
   the order of his providence is this, as far as, by attention to the
   Holy Scriptures and the doctrine of the Fathers, we are able to
   discover and our weakness permits us to describe it.

   God knew from all eternity that he could make an innumerable multitude
   of creatures with divers perfections and qualities, to whom he might
   communicate himself, and considering that amongst all the different
   communications there was none so excellent as that of uniting himself
   to some created nature, in such sort that the creature might be
   engrafted and implanted in the divinity, and become one single person
   with it, his infinite goodness, which of itself and by itself tends
   towards communication, resolved and determined to communicate himself
   in this manner. So that, as eternally there is an essential
   communication in God by which the Father communicates all his infinite
   and indivisible divinity to the Son in producing him, and the Father
   and the Son together producing the Holy Ghost communicate to him also
   their own singular divinity;--so this sovereign sweetness was so
   perfectly communicated externally to a creature, that the created
   nature and the divinity, retaining each of them its own properties,
   were notwithstanding so united together that they were but one same
   person.

   Now of all the creatures which that sovereign omnipotence could
   produce, he thought good to make choice of the same humanity which
   afterwards in effect was united to the person of God the Son; to which
   he destined that incomparable honour of personal union with his divine
   Majesty, to the end that for all eternity it might enjoy by excellence
   the treasures of his infinite glory. Then having selected for this
   happiness the sacred humanity of our Saviour, the supreme providence
   decreed not to restrain his goodness to the only person of his
   well-beloved Son, but for his sake to pour it out upon divers other
   creatures, and out of the mass of that innumerable quantity of things
   which he could produce, he chose to create men and angels to accompany
   his Son, participate in his graces and glory, adore and praise him for
   ever. And inasmuch as he saw that he could in various manners form the
   humanity of this Son, while making him true man, as for example by
   creating him out of nothing, not only in regard of the soul but also in
   regard of the body; or again by forming the body of some previously
   existing matter as he did that of Adam and Eve, or by way of ordinary
   human birth, or finally by extraordinary birth from a woman without
   man, he determined that the work should be effected by the last way,
   and of all the women he might have chosen to this end he made choice of
   the most holy virgin Our Lady, through whom the Saviour of our souls
   should not only be man, but a child of the human race.

   Furthermore the sacred providence determined to produce all other
   things as well natural as supernatural in behalf of Our Saviour, in
   order that angels and men might, by serving him, share in his glory; on
   which account, although God willed to create both angels and men with
   free-will, free with a true freedom to choose evil or good, still, to
   show that on the part of the divine goodness they were dedicated to
   good and to glory, he created them all in original justice, which is no
   other thing than a most sweet love, which disposed, turned and set them
   forward towards eternal felicity.

   But because this supreme wisdom had determined so to temper this
   original love with the will of his creatures that love should not force
   the will but should leave it in its freedom, he foresaw that a part,
   yet the less part, of the angelic nature, voluntarily quitting holy
   love, would consequently lose glory. And because the angelic nature
   could only commit this sin by an express malice, without temptation or
   any motive which could excuse them, and on the other hand the far
   greater part of that same nature would remain constant in the service
   of their Saviour,--therefore God, who had so amply glorified his mercy
   in the work of the creation of angels, would also magnify his justice,
   and in the fury of his indignation resolved for ever to abandon that
   woful and accursed troop of traitors, who in the fury of their
   rebellion had so villanously abandoned him.

   He also clearly foresaw that the first man would abuse his liberty and
   forsaking grace would lose glory, yet would he not treat human nature
   so rigorously as he determined to treat the angelic. It was human
   nature of which he had determined to take a blessed portion to unite it
   to his divinity. He saw that it was a feeble nature, a wind which goeth
   and returneth not, [64] that is, which is dissipated as it goes. He had
   regard to the surprise by which the malign and perverse Satan had taken
   the first man, and to the greatness of the temptation which ruined him.
   He saw that all the race of men was perishing by the fault of one only,
   so that for these reasons he beheld our nature with the eye of pity and
   resolved to admit it to his mercy.

   But in order that the sweetness of his mercy might be adorned with the
   beauty of his justice, he determined to save man by way of a rigorous
   redemption. And as this could not properly be done but by his Son, he
   settled that he should redeem man not only by one of his amorous
   actions, which would have been perfectly sufficient to ransom a million
   million of worlds: but also by all the innumerable amorous actions and
   dolorous passions which he would perform or suffer till death, and the
   death of the cross, to which he destined him. He willed that thus he
   should make himself the companion of our miseries to make us afterwards
   companions of his glory, showing thereby the riches of his goodness, by
   this copious, abundant, superabundant, magnificent and excessive
   redemption, which has gained for us, and as it were reconquered for us,
   all the means necessary to attain glory, so that no man can ever
   complain as though the divine mercy were wanting to any one.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [64] Ps. lxxvii. 39.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   THAT HEAVENLY PROVIDENCE HAS PROVIDED MEN WITH A MOST ABUNDANT
   REDEMPTION.

   Now when saying, Theotimus, that God had seen and willed first one
   thing and then secondly another, observing an order in his wills: I
   meant this in the sense I declared before, namely, that though all this
   passed in a most singular and simple act, yet in that act the order,
   distinction and dependence of things were no less observed than if
   there had been indeed several acts in the understanding and will of
   God. And since every well-ordered will which determines itself to love
   several objects equally present, loves better and above all the rest
   that which is most lovable; it follows that the sovereign Providence,
   making his eternal purpose and design of all that he would produce,
   first willed and preferred by excellence the most amiable object of his
   love which is Our Saviour; and then other creatures in order, according
   as they more or less belong to the service, honours and glory of him.

   Thus were all things made for that divine man, who for this cause is
   called the first-born of every creature: [65] possessed by the divine
   majesty in the beginning of his ways, before he made anything from the
   beginning. [66] For in him were all things created in heaven, and on
   earth, visible, and invisible, whether thrones, or dominations, or
   principalities, or powers: all things were created by him and in him:
   And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the
   first-born from among the dead: that in all things he may hold the
   primacy. [67] The principal reason of planting the vine is the fruit,
   and therefore the fruit is the first thing desired and aimed at, though
   the leaves and the buds are first produced. So our great Saviour was
   the first in the divine intention, and in that eternal project which
   the divine providence made of the production of creatures, and in view
   of this desired fruit the vine of the universe was planted, and the
   succession of many generations established, which as leaves or blossoms
   proceed from it as forerunners and fit preparatives for the production
   of that grape which the sacred spouse so much praises in the Canticles,
   and the juice of which rejoices God and men.

   But now, my Theotimus, who can doubt of the abundance of the means of
   salvation, since we have so great a Saviour, in consideration of whom
   we have been made, and by whose merits we have been ransomed. For he
   died for all because all were dead, and his mercy was more salutary to
   buy back the race of men than Adam's misery was to ruin it. Indeed
   Adam's sin was so far from overwhelming the divine benignity that on
   the contrary it excited and provoked it. So that by a most sweet and
   most loving reaction and struggle, it received vigour from its
   adversary's presence, and as if re-collecting its forces for victory,
   it made grace to superabound where sin had abounded. [68] Whence the
   holy Church by a pious excess of admiration cries out upon Easter-eve:
   "O truly necessary sin of Adam which was blotted out by the death of
   Jesus Christ! O blessed fault, which merited to have such and so great
   a Redeemer!" Truly, Theotimus, we may say as did he of old, "we were
   ruined had we not been undone:" that is, ruin brought us profit, since
   in effect human nature has received more graces by its Saviour
   redeeming, than ever it would have received by Adam's innocence, if he
   had persevered therein.

   For though the divine Providence has left in man deep marks of his
   severity, yea, even amidst the very grace of his mercy, as for example
   the necessity of dying, diseases, labours, the rebellion of
   sensuality,--yet the divine favour floating as it were over all this,
   takes pleasure in turning these miseries to the greater profit of those
   who love him, making patience spring from labours, contempt of the
   world from the necessity of death, a thousand victories from out of
   concupiscence; and, as the rainbow touching the thorn aspalathus makes
   it more odoriferous than the lily, so Our Saviour's Redemption touching
   our miseries, makes them more beneficial and worthy of love than
   original innocence could ever have been. I say to you, says Our
   Saviour, there shall be joy in heaven upon one sinner that doth
   penance, more than upon ninety-nine just who need not penance, [69] and
   so the state of redemption is a hundred times better than that of
   innocence. Verily by the watering of Our Saviour's blood made with the
   hyssop of the cross, we have been replaced in a whiteness incomparably
   more excellent than the snow of innocence. We come out, like Naaman,
   from the stream of salvation more pure and clean than if we had never
   been leprous, to the end that the divine Majesty, as he has ordained
   also for us, should not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil by good,
   [70] that mercy (as a sacred oil) should keep itself above judgment,
   [71] and his tender mercies be over all his works. [72]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [65] Col. i. 15.

   [66] Prov. viii. 22.

   [67] Col. i. 16.

   [68] Rom. v. 20.

   [69] Luke xv. 7.

   [70] Rom. xii. 21.

   [71] James ii. 13.

   [72] Ps. cxliv. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   OF CERTAIN SPECIAL FAVOURS EXERCISED BY THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE IN THE
   REDEMPTION OF MAN.

   God indeed shows to admiration the incomprehensible riches of his power
   in this great variety of things which we see in nature, yet he makes
   the infinite treasures of his goodness still more magnificently appear
   in the incomparable variety of the goods which we acknowledge in grace.
   For, Theotimus, he was not content, in the holy excess of his mercy,
   with sending to his people, that is, to mankind, a general and
   universal redemption, by means whereof every one might be saved, but he
   has diversified it in so many ways, that while his liberality shines in
   all this variety, this variety reciprocally embellishes his liberality.

   And thus he first of all destined for his most holy Mother a favour
   worthy of the love of a Son who, being all wise, all mighty, and all
   good, wished to prepare a mother to his liking; and therefore he willed
   his redemption to be applied to her after the manner of a preserving
   remedy, that the sin which was spreading from generation to generation
   should not reach her. She then was so excellently redeemed, that though
   when the time came, the torrent of original iniquity rushed to pour its
   unhappy waves over her conception, with as much impetuosity as it had
   done on that of the other daughters of Adam; yet when it reached there
   it passed not beyond, but stopped, as did anciently the Jordan in the
   time of Josue, and for the same respect: for this river held its stream
   in reverence for the passage of the Ark of Alliance; and original sin
   drew back its waters, revering and dreading the presence of the true
   Tabernacle of the eternal alliance. In this way then God turned away
   all captivity from his glorious Mother, giving her the blessing of both
   the states of human nature; since she had the innocence which the first
   Adam had lost, and enjoyed in an excellent sort the redemption acquired
   for her. Whence as a garden of election which was to bring forth the
   fruit of life, she was made to flourish in all sorts of perfections;
   this son of eternal love having thus clothed his mother in gilded
   clothing, surrounded with variety, [73] that she might be the queen of
   his right hand, that is to say, the first of all the elect to enjoy the
   delights of God's right hand: [74] so that this sacred mother as being
   altogether reserved for her son, was by him redeemed not only from
   damnation but also from all peril of damnation, he giving her grace and
   the perfection of grace, so that she went like a lovely dawn, which,
   beginning to break, increases continually in brightness till perfect
   daylight. Admirable redemption! master-piece of the redeemer! and first
   of all redemptions! by which the son with a truly filial heart
   preventing his mother with the blessings of sweetness, preserved her
   not only from sin as he did the angels, but also from all danger of sin
   and from everything that might divert or retard her in the exercise of
   holy love. And he protests that amongst all the reasonable creatures he
   has chosen, this mother is his one dove, his all perfect one, his all
   dear love, beyond all likeness and all comparison.

   God also appointed other favours for a small number of rare creatures
   whom he would preserve from the peril of damnation, as is certain of S.
   John Baptist and very probable of Jeremias and some others, whom the
   Divine providence seized upon in their mother's womb, and thereupon
   established them in the perpetuity of his grace, that they might remain
   firm in his love, though subject to checks and venial sins, which are
   contrary to the perfection of love though not to love itself. And these
   souls in comparison with others, are as queens, ever crowned with
   charity, holding the principal place in the love of their Saviour next
   to his mother, who is queen of queens, a queen crowned not only with
   love but with the perfection of love, yea, what is yet more, crowned
   with her own Son, the sovereign object of love, since children are the
   crown of their father and mother.

   There are yet other souls whom God determined for a time to leave
   exposed to the danger, not of losing their salvation, but yet of losing
   his love; yea he permitted them actually to lose it, not assuring them
   love for the whole time of their life, but only for the end of it and
   for a certain time preceding. Such were the Apostles, David, Magdalen
   and many others, who for a time remained out of God's grace, but in the
   end being once for all converted were confirmed in grace until death;
   so that though from that time they continued subject to some
   imperfections, yet were they exempt from all mortal sin, and
   consequently from danger of losing the divine love, and were sacred
   spouses of the heavenly bridegroom. And they were indeed adorned with a
   wedding garment of his most holy love, yet they were not crowned
   because a crown is an ornament of the head, that is, of the chief part
   of a person; now the first part of the life of this rank of souls
   having been subject to earthly love, they were not to be adorned with
   the crown of heavenly love, but it is sufficient for them to wear the
   robe, which fits them for the marriage bed of the heavenly spouse, and
   for being eternally happy with him.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [73] Ps. xliv. 10.

   [74] Ps. xv. 11.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   HOW ADMIRABLE THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE IS IN THE DIVERSITY OF GRACES GIVEN
   TO MEN.

   There was then in the eternal providence an incomparable privilege for
   the queen of queens, mother of fair love, and most singularly all
   perfect. There were also for certain others some special favours. But
   after this the sovereign goodness poured an abundance of graces and
   benedictions over the whole race of mankind and upon the angels, with
   which all were watered as with a rain that falleth on the just and
   unjust, all were illuminated as with a light that enlighteneth every
   man coming into this world; every one received his portion as of seed,
   which falls not only upon the good ground but upon the highway, amongst
   thorns, and upon rocks, that all might be inexcusable before the
   Redeemer, if they employ not this most abundant redemption for their
   salvation.

   But still, Theotimus, although this most abundant sufficiency of grace
   is thus poured out over all human nature, and although in this we are
   all equal that a rich abundance of benedictions is offered to us all,
   yet the variety of these favours is so great, that one cannot say
   whether the greatness of all these graces in so great a diversity, or
   the diversity in such greatness, is more admirable. For who sees not
   that the means of salvation amongst Christians are greater and more
   efficacious than amongst barbarians, and again that amongst Christians
   there are people and towns where the pastors get more fruit, and are
   more capable? Now to deny that these exterior means were benefits of
   the divine providence, or to doubt whether they did avail to the
   salvation and perfection of souls, were to be ungrateful to the divine
   goodness, and to belie certain experience, by which we see that
   ordinarily where these exterior helps abound, the interior are more
   efficacious and succeed better.

   In truth, as we see that there are never found two men perfectly
   resembling one another in natural gifts, so are there never found any
   wholly equal in supernatural ones. The angels, as the great S.
   Augustine and S. Thomas assure us, received grace according to the
   variety of their natural conditions; now they are all either of a
   different species or at least of a different condition, since they are
   distinguished one from another; therefore as many angels as there are,
   so many different graces are there. And though grace is not given to
   men according to their natural conditions, yet the divine sweetness
   rejoicing, and as one would say exulting, in the production of graces,
   infinitely diversifies them, to the end that out of this variety the
   fair enamel of his redemption and mercy may appear: whence the church
   upon the feast of every Confessor and Bishop sings "There was not found
   the like to him." And as in heaven no one knows the new name, save him
   that receives it, [75] because each one of the blessed has his own
   apart, according to the new being of glory which he acquires; similarly
   on earth every one receives a grace so special that all are different.
   Our Saviour also compares his grace to pearls, which as Pliny says are
   otherwise called unities, because each one of them is so singular in
   its qualities that two of them are never found perfectly alike; and as
   one star differeth from another in glory, [76] so shall men be
   different from one another in glory, an evident sign that they will
   have been so in grace. Now this variety in grace, or this grace in
   variety, composes a most sacred beauty and most sweet harmony,
   rejoicing all the holy city of the heavenly Jerusalem.

   But we must be very careful never to make inquiry why the supreme
   wisdom bestows a grace rather upon one than another, nor why it makes
   its favours abound rather in one behalf than another. No, Theotimus,
   never enter into this curiosity, for having all of us sufficiently, yea
   abundantly, that which is requisite to salvation, what reason can any
   creature living have to complain if it please God to bestow his graces
   more amply upon one than another? If one should ask why God made melons
   larger than strawberries, or lilies larger than violets, why the
   rosemary is not a rose, or why the pink is not a marigold, why the
   peacock is more beautiful than a bat, or why the fig is sweet and the
   lemon acid,--one would laugh at his question, and say: poor man, since
   the beauty of the world requires variety it is necessary there should
   be difference and inequality in things, and that the one should not be
   the other. That is why some things are little, others big, some bitter,
   others sweet, the one more, the other less beautiful. Now it is the
   same in supernatural things. Every one hath his proper gift from God;
   one after this manner, and another after that, [77] says the Holy
   Ghost. It is then an impertinence to search out why S. Paul had not the
   grace of S. Peter, or S. Peter that of S. Paul; why S. Antony was not
   S. Athanasius, or S. Athanasius S. Jerome; for one would answer to
   these inquiries that the church is a garden diapered with innumerable
   flowers; it is necessary then they should be of various sizes, various
   colours, various odours, in fine of different perfections. All have
   their price, their charm and their colour, and all of them in the
   collection of their differences make up a most grateful perfection of
   beauty.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [75] Apoc. ii. 17.

   [76] 1 Cor. xv. 41.

   [77] 1 Cor. vii. 7.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   HOW MUCH GOD DESIRES WE SHOULD LOVE HIM.

   Although our Saviour's redemption is applied to us in as many different
   manners as there are souls, yet still, love is the universal means of
   salvation which mingles with everything, and without which nothing is
   profitable, as we shall show elsewhere. The Cherubim were placed at the
   gate of the earthly paradise with their flaming sword, to teach us that
   no one shall enter into the heavenly paradise who is not pierced
   through with the sword of love. For this cause, Theotimus, the sweet
   Jesus who bought us with his blood, is infinitely desirous that we
   should love him that we may eternally be saved, and desires we may be
   saved that we may love him eternally, his love tending to our salvation
   and our salvation to his love. Ah! said he: I am come to cast fire on
   the earth; and what will I but that it be kindled? [78] But to set out
   more to the life the ardour of this desire, he in admirable terms
   requires this love from us. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy
   whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole mind. This is
   the greatest and the first commandment. [79] Good God! Theotimus, how
   amorous the divine heart is of our love. Would it not have sufficed to
   publish a permission giving us leave to love him, as Laban permitted
   Jacob to love his fair Rachel, and to gain her by services? Ah no! he
   makes a stronger declaration of his passionate love of us, and commands
   us to love him with all our power, lest the consideration of his
   majesty and our misery, which make so great a distance and inequality
   between us, or some other pretext, might divert us from his love. In
   this, Theotimus, he well shows that he did not leave in us for nothing
   the natural inclination to love him, for to the end it may not be idle,
   he urges us by this general commandment to employ it, and that this
   commandment may be effected, he leaves no living man without furnishing
   him abundantly with all means requisite thereto. The visible sun
   touches everything with its vivifying heat, and as the universal lover
   of inferior things, imparts to them the vigour requisite to produce,
   and even so the divine goodness animates all souls and encourages all
   hearts to its love, none being excluded from its heat. Eternal wisdom,
   says Solomon, preacheth abroad, she uttereth her voice in the streets:
   At the head of multitudes she crieth out, in the entrance of the gates
   of the city she uttereth her words, saying: O children, how long will
   you love childishness, and fools covet those things which are hurtful
   to themselves, and the unwise hate knowledge? Turn ye at my reproof:
   behold I will utter my spirit to you, and will show you my words. [80]
   And the same wisdom continues in Ezechiel saying: Our iniquities and
   our sins are upon us, and we pine away in them: how then can we live?
   Say to them: As I live, saith the Lord God, I desire not the death of
   the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way, and live. [81] Now
   to live according to God is to love, and he that loveth not abideth in
   death. [82] See now, Theotimus, whether God does not desire we should
   love him!

   But he is not content with announcing thus publicly his extreme desire
   to be loved, so that every one may have a share in his sweet
   invitation, but he goes even from door to door, knocking and protesting
   that, if any man shall hear my voice, and open to me the door, I will
   come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me: [83] that is, he
   will testify all sorts of good will towards him.

   Now what does all this mean, Theotimus, except that God does not only
   give us a simple sufficiency of means to love him, and in loving him to
   save ourselves, but also a rich, ample and magnificent sufficiency, and
   such as ought to be expected from so great a bounty as his. The great
   Apostle speaking to obstinate sinners: Despisest thou, says he, the
   riches of his goodness, and patience, and long-suffering? Knowest thou
   not that the benignity of God leadeth thee to penance? But according to
   thy hardness and impenitent heart, thou treasurest up to thyself wrath,
   against the day of wrath and revelation of the just judgment of God.
   [84] My dear Theotimus, God does not therefore employ a simple
   sufficiency of remedies to convert the obstinate, but uses to this end
   the riches of his goodness. The Apostle, as you see, opposes the riches
   of God's goodness against the treasures of the impenitent heart's
   malice, and says that the malicious heart is so rich in iniquity that
   he despises even the riches of the mildness by which God leads him to
   repentance; and mark that the obstinate man not only contemns the
   riches of God's goodness, but also the riches which lead to penance,
   riches whereof one can scarcely be ignorant. Verily this rich, full and
   plenteous sufficiency of means which God freely bestows upon sinners to
   love him appears almost everywhere in the Scriptures. Behold this
   divine lover at the gate, he does not simply knock, but stands
   knocking; he calls the soul, come, arise, make haste, my love, [85] and
   puts his hand into the lock to try whether he cannot open it. If he
   uttereth his voice in the streets he does not simply utter it, but he
   goes crying out, that is, he continues to cry out. When he proclaims
   that every one must be converted, he thinks he has never repeated it
   sufficiently. Be converted, do penance, return to me, live, why dost
   thou die, O house of Israel? [86] In a word this heavenly Saviour
   forgets nothing to show that his mercies are above all his works, that
   his mercy surpasses his judgment, that his redemption is copious, that
   his love is infinite, and, as the Apostle says, that he is rich in
   mercy, and consequently he will have all men to be saved; not willing
   that any should perish. [87]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [78] Luke xii. 49.

   [79] Matt. xxii. 37, 38.

   [80] Prov. i. 20, 21, 22, 23.

   [81] Ezech. xxxiii. 10, 12.

   [82] 1 John iii. 14.

   [83] Apoc. iii. 20.

   [84] Rom. ii. 4., 5.

   [85] Cant. ii. 16.

   [86] Ezech. xviii. 30.

   [87] 1 Tim. ii. 4.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   HOW THE ETERNAL LOVE OF GOD PREVENTS OUR HEARTS WITH HIS INSPIRATIONS
   IN ORDER THAT WE MAY LOVE HIM.

   I have loved thee with an everlasting love, therefore have I drawn
   thee, taking pity on thee. And I will build thee again, and thou shalt
   be built, O virgin of Israel. [88] These are the words of God, by which
   he promises that the Saviour coming into the world shall establish a
   new kingdom in his Church, which shall be his virgin-spouse, and true
   spiritual Israelite.

   Now as you see, Theotimus, it was not by the works of justice, which we
   have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, [89] by that
   ancient, yea, eternal, charity which moved his divine Providence to
   draw us unto him. No man can come to me except the Father, who hath
   sent me, draw him. [90] For if the Father had not drawn us we had never
   come to the Son, our Saviour, nor consequently to salvation.

   There are certain birds, Theotimus, which Aristotle calls apodes, [91]
   because having extremely short legs, and feeble feet, they use them no
   more than if they had none. And if ever they light upon the ground they
   must remain there, so that they can never take flight again of their
   own power, because having no use of their legs or feet, they have
   therefore no power to move and start themselves into the air: hence
   they remain there motionless, and die, unless some wind, propitious to
   their impotence, sending out its blasts upon the face of the earth,
   happen to seize upon and bear them up, as it does many other things. If
   this happen, and they make use of their wings to correspond with this
   first start and motion which the wind gives them, it also continues its
   assistance to them, bringing them by little and little into flight.

   Theotimus, the angels are like to those birds, which for their beauty
   and rarity are called birds-of-paradise, never seen on earth but dead.
   For those heavenly spirits had no sooner forsaken divine love to attach
   themselves to self-love, than suddenly they fell as dead, buried in
   hell, seeing that the same effect which death has on men, separating
   them everlastingly from this mortal life, the same had the angels' fall
   on them, excluding them for ever from eternal life. But we mortals
   rather resemble apodes: for if it chance that we, quitting the air of
   holy divine love, fall upon earth and adhere to creatures, which we do
   as often as we offend God, we die indeed, yet not so absolute a death
   but that there remains in us a little movement, besides our legs and
   feet, namely, some weak affections, which enable us to make some essays
   of love, though so weakly, that in truth we are impotent of ourselves
   to detach our hearts from sin, or start ourselves again in the flight
   of sacred love, which, wretches that we are, we have perfidiously and
   voluntarily forsaken.

   And truly we should well deserve to remain abandoned of God, when with
   this disloyalty we have thus abandoned him. But his eternal charity
   does not often permit his justice to use this chastisement, but rather,
   exciting his compassion, it provokes him to reclaim us from our misery,
   which he does by sending us the favourable wind of his most holy
   inspirations, which, blowing upon our hearts with a gentle violence,
   seizes and moves them, raising our thoughts, and moving our affections
   into the air of divine love.

   Now this first stirring or motion which God causes in our hearts to
   incite them to their own good, is effected indeed in us but not by us;
   for it comes unexpectedly, before we have either thought of it or been
   able to think of it, seeing we are not sufficient to think anything
   towards our salvation of ourselves as of ourselves, but our sufficiency
   is from God, [92] who did not only love us before we were, but also to
   the end we might be, and might be saints. For which cause he prevents
   us with the blessings of his fatherly sweetness, and excites our souls,
   in order to bring them to holy repentance and conversion. See, I pray
   you, Theotimus, the prince of the Apostles, stupefied with sin in the
   sad night of his Master's passion; he no more thought of sorrowing for
   his sin, than though he had never known his heavenly Saviour. And as a
   miserable apode fallen to earth, he would never have been raised, had
   not the cock, as an instrument of divine providence, struck his ears
   with its voice, at the same instant in which his sweet Redeemer casting
   upon him a gracious look, like a dart of love, transpierced that heart
   of stone, which afterwards sent forth water in such abundance, like the
   ancient rock smitten by Moses in the desert. But look again and see
   this holy Apostle sleeping in Herod's prison, bound with two chains: he
   is there in quality of a martyr, and nevertheless he represents the
   poor man who sleeps amid sin, prisoner and slave to Satan. Alas! who
   will deliver him? The angel descends from heaven, and striking the
   great Saint Peter, the prisoner, upon the side, awakens him, saying:
   Arise quickly! So the inspiration comes from heaven like an angel, and
   striking upon the poor sinner's heart, stirs him up to rise from his
   iniquity. Is it not true then, my dear Theotimus, that this first
   emotion and shock which the soul perceives, when God, preventing it
   with love, awakens it and excites it to forsake sin and return unto him
   and not only this shock, but also the whole awakening, is done in us,
   and for us, but not by us? We are awake, but have not awakened of
   ourselves, it is the inspiration which has awakened us, and to awaken
   us has shaken and moved us. I slept, says that devout spouse, but my
   beloved, who is my heart, watched. Ah! see that it is he who awakens
   me, calling me by the name of our loves, and I know well by his voice
   that it is he. It is unawares and unexpectedly that God calls and
   awakens us by his holy inspiration, and in this beginning of grace we
   do nothing but feel the touch which God gives, in us, as S. Bernard
   says, but without us.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [88] Jerem. xxxi. 3.

   [89] Titus iii. 5.

   [90] John vi. 44.

   [91] i.e., Footless. [Tr.]

   [92] 2 Cor. iii. 5.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   HOW WE OFTENTIMES REPULSE THE INSPIRATION AND REFUSE TO LOVE GOD.

   Wo to thee, Corozain, wo to thee, Bethsaida: for if in Tyre and Sidon
   had been wrought the miracles that have been wrought in you, they had
   long ago done penance in sackcloth and ashes. [93] Such is the word of
   Our Saviour. Hark I pray you, Theotimus, how the inhabitants of
   Corozain and Bethsaida, instructed in the true religion, and having
   received favours so great that they would effectually have converted
   the pagans themselves, remained nevertheless obstinate, and never
   willed to use them, rejecting this holy light by an incomparable
   rebellion. Certainly at the day of judgment the Ninivites and the Queen
   of Saba will rise up against the Jews, and will convict them as worthy
   of damnation: because, as to the Ninivites, though idolators and
   barbarians, at the voice of Jonas they were converted and did penance;
   and as to the Queen of Saba, she, though engaged in the affairs of a
   kingdom, yet having heard the renown of Solomon's wisdom, forsook all,
   to go and hear him. Yet the Jews, hearing with their ears the heavenly
   wisdom of the true Solomon, the Saviour of the world; seeing with their
   eyes his miracles; touching with their hands his virtues and benefits;
   ceased not for all that to be hardened, and to resist the grace which
   was proffered them. See then again, Theotimus, how they who had less
   attractions are brought to penance, and those who had more remain
   obdurate: those who have less occasion to come, come to the school of
   wisdom, and those who have more, stay in their folly.

   Thus will be made the judgment of comparison, as all doctors have
   remarked, which can have no foundation save in this, that
   notwithstanding some have had as many calls as others have, or more,
   they will have denied consent to God's mercy, whereas others, assisted
   with the like, yea even lesser helps, will have followed the
   inspiration, betaking themselves to holy penance. For how could one
   otherwise reasonably reproach the impenitent with their impenitence, in
   comparison with such as are converted?

   Certainly Our Saviour clearly shows, and all Christians in simplicity
   understand, that in this just judgment the Jews shall be condemned in
   comparison with the Ninivites, because those have had many favours and
   yet no love, much assistance and no repentance, these less favour and
   more love, less assistance and much penitence.

   The great S. Augustine throws a great light on this reasoning, by his
   own arguments in Book XII. of the 'City of God,' Chapters vi., vii.,
   viii., ix. For though he refers particularly to the angels, still he
   likens men to them in this point.

   Now, after having taken, in the sixth chapter, two men, entirely equal
   in goodness and in all things, attacked by the same temptation, he
   presupposes that one resists, the other gives way to the enemy; then in
   the ninth chapter, having proved that all the angels were created in
   charity, stating further as probable that grace and charity were equal
   in them all, he asks how it came to pass that some of them persevered,
   and made progress in goodness even to the attaining of glory, while
   others forsook good to embrace evil unto damnation, and he answers that
   no other answer can be rendered, than that the one company persevered
   by the grace of their Creator in the chaste love which they received in
   their creation, the other, having been good, made themselves bad by
   their own sole will.

   But if it is true, as S. Thomas extremely well proves, that grace was
   different in the angels in proportion and according to their natural
   gifts, the Seraphim must have had a grace incomparably more excellent
   than the simple angels of the last order. How then did it happen that
   some of the Seraphim, yea even the first of all, according to the
   common and most probable opinion of the ancients, fell, while an
   innumerable multitude of other angels, inferior in nature and grace,
   excellently and courageously persevered? How came it to pass that
   Lucifer, so excellent by nature and so superexcellent by grace, fell,
   while so many angels with less advantages remained upright in their
   fidelity? Truly those who persevered ought to render all the praise
   thereof to God, who of his mercy created and maintained them good. But
   to whom can Lucifer and all his crew ascribe their fall, if not, as S.
   Augustine says, to their own will, which by their liberty divorced them
   from God's grace that had so sweetly prevented them? How art thou
   fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, who didst rise in the morning? [94] Who
   didst come out into this invisible world clothed with original charity
   as with the beginning of the brightness of a fair day, which was to
   increase unto the mid-day of eternal glory? Grace did not fail thee,
   for thou hadst it, like thy nature, the most excellent of all, but thou
   wast wanting to grace. God did not deprive thee of the operation of his
   love, but thou didst deprive his love of thy co-operation. God would
   never have rejected thee if thou hadst not rejected his love. O
   all-good God! thou dost not forsake unless forsaken, thou never takest
   away thy gifts till we take away our hearts.

   We rob God of his right if we attribute to ourselves the glory of our
   salvation, but we dishonour his mercy if we say he failed us. If we do
   not confess his benefits we wrong his liberality, but we blaspheme his
   goodness if we deny that he has assisted and succoured us. In fine, God
   cries loud and clear in our ears: Destruction is thy own, O Israel: thy
   help is only in me. [95]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [93] Matt. xi. 21.

   [94] Isa. xiv. 12.

   [95] Osee xiii. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   THAT IT IS NO FAULT OF THE DIVINE GOODNESS IF WE HAVE NOT A MOST
   EXCELLENT LOVE.

   O God! Theotimus, if we received divine inspirations to the full extent
   of their virtue, in how short a time should we make a great progress in
   sanctity? Be the fountain ever so copious, its streams enter not into a
   garden according to their plenty, but according to the littleness or
   greatness of the channel by which they are conducted thither. Although
   the Holy Ghost, as a spring of living water, flows up to every part of
   our heart to spread his graces in it, yet as he will not have them
   enter without the free consent of our will, he will only pour them out
   according to his good pleasure and our own disposition and cooperation,
   as the Holy Council says, which also, by reason, as I suppose, of the
   correspondence between our consent and grace, calls the reception
   thereof a voluntary reception.

   In this sense S. Paul exhorts us not to receive God's grace in vain.
   [96] For as a sick man, who having received a draught in his hand did
   not take it into his stomach, would truly have received the potion, yet
   without receiving it, that is, he would have received it in a useless
   and fruitless way, so we receive the grace of God in vain, when we
   receive it at the gate of our heart, and not within the consent of our
   heart; for so we receive it without receiving it, that is, we receive
   it without fruit, since it is nothing to feel the inspiration without
   consenting unto it. And as the sick man who had the potion given into
   his hand, if he took it not wholly but only partly, would also have the
   operation thereof in part only, and not wholly,--so when God sends a
   great and mighty inspiration to move us to embrace his holy love, if we
   consent not according to its whole extent it will but profit us in the
   same measure. It happens that being inspired to do much we consent not
   to the whole inspiration but only to some part thereof, as did those
   good people in the Gospel, who upon the inspiration which Our Lord gave
   them to follow him wished to make reservations, the one to go first and
   bury his father, the other to go to take leave of his people.

   As long as the poor widow had empty vessels, the oil which Eliseus had
   by prayer miraculously multiplied never left off running, but when she
   had no more vessels to receive it, it ceased to flow. In the same
   measure in which our heart dilates itself, or rather in the measure in
   which it permits itself to be enlarged and dilated, keeping itself
   empty by the simple fact of not refusing consent to the divine mercy,
   this ever pours forth and ceaselessly spreads its sacred inspirations,
   which ever increase and make us increase more and more in heavenly
   love; but when there is no more room, that is, when we no longer give
   consent, it stops.

   How comes it then that we are not so advanced in the love of God as S.
   Augustine, S. Francis, S. Catharine of Genoa or S. Frances? Theotimus,
   it is because God has not given us the grace. But why has he not given
   us the grace? Because we did not correspond with his inspirations as we
   should have done. And why did we not correspond? Because being free we
   have herein abused our liberty. But why did we abuse our liberty? Ah!
   Theotimus, we must stop there, for, as S. Augustine says, the
   depravation of our will proceeds from no cause, but from some
   deficiency in the agent (cause) who commits the sin. And we must not
   expect to be able to give a reason of the fault which occurs in sin,
   because the fault would not be a sin if it was not without reason.

   The devout Brother Rufinus upon a certain vision which he had of the
   glory which the great S. Francis would attain unto by his humility,
   asked him this question: My dear father, I beseech you, tell me truly
   what opinion you have of yourself? The Saint answered: Verily I hold
   myself to be the greatest sinner in the world, and the one who serves
   Our Lord least. But, Brother Rufinus replied, how can you say this in
   truth and conscience, seeing that many others, as we manifestly see,
   commit many great sins from which, God be thanked, you are exempt. To
   which S. Francis answered: If God had favoured those others of whom you
   speak with as great mercy as he has favoured me, I am certain, be they
   ever so bad now, they would have acknowledged God's gifts far better
   than I do, and would serve him much better than I do, and if my God
   abandoned me I should commit more wickedness than any one else.

   You see, Theotimus, the opinion of this man, who indeed was scarcely
   man, but a seraph upon earth. I know it was humility that moved him to
   speak thus of himself, yet nevertheless he believed for a certain truth
   that an equal grace granted by an equal mercy might be more faithfully
   employed by one sinner than by anothor. Now I hold for an oracle the
   sentiment of this great doctor in the science of the saints, who,
   brought up in the school of the Crucifix, breathed nothing but the
   divine inspirations. And this maxim has been praised and repeated by
   all the most devout who have followed him, many of whom are of opinion
   that the great Apostle S. Paul said in the same sense that he was the
   chief of all sinners. [97]

   The Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa of Jesus, also, in good truth, a quite
   angelic virgin, speaking of the prayer of quiet, says these
   words:--"There are divers souls who come up to this perfection, but
   those who pass beyond are a very small number: I know not the cause of
   it, certainly the fault is not on God's side, for since his divine
   majesty aids us and gives us the grace to arrive at this point, I
   believe that he would not fail to give us still more if it were not for
   our fault, and the impediment which we on our part place." Let us
   therefore, Theotimus, be attentive to advance in the love which we owe
   to God, for that which he bears us will never fail us.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [96] 2 Cor. vi. 1.

   [97] 1 Tim. i. 15.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   THAT DIVINE INSPIRATIONS LEAVE US IN FULL LIBERTY TO FOLLOW OR REPULSE
   THEM.

   I will not here speak, my dear Theotimus, of those miraculous graces
   which have almost in an instant transformed wolves into shepherds,
   rocks into waters, persecutors into preachers. I leave on one side
   those all-powerful vocations, and holily violent attractions by which
   God has brought some elect souls from the extremity of vice to the
   extremity of grace, working as it were in them a certain moral and
   spiritual transubstantiation: as it happened to the great Apostle, who
   of Saul, vessel of persecution, became suddenly Paul, vessel of
   election. [98] We must give a particular rank to those privileged souls
   in regard of whom it pleased God to make not the mere outflowing, but
   the inundation--to exercise, if one may so say, not the simple
   liberality and effusion, but the prodigality and profusion of his love.
   The divine justice chastises us in this world with punishments which,
   as they are ordinary, so they remain almost always unknown and
   imperceptible; sometimes, however, he sends out deluges and abysses of
   punishments, to make known and dreaded the severity of his indignation.
   In like manner his mercy ordinarily converts and graces souls so
   sweetly, gently and delicately, that its movement is scarcely
   perceived; and yet it happens sometimes that this sovereign goodness,
   overflowing its ordinary banks (as a flood swollen and overcharged with
   the abundance of waters and breaking out over the plain) makes an
   outpouring of his graces so impetuous, though loving, that in a moment
   he steeps and covers the whole soul with benedictions, in order that
   the riches of his love may appear, and that as his justice proceeds
   commonly by the ordinary way and sometimes by the extraordinary, so his
   mercy may exercise liberality upon the common sort of men in the
   ordinary way, and on some also by extraordinary ways.

   But what are then the ordinary cords whereby the divine providence is
   accustomed to draw our hearts to his love? Such truly as he himself
   marks, describing the means which he used to draw the people of Israel
   out of Egypt, and out of the desert, unto the land of promise. I will
   draw them, says he by Osee, with the cords of Adam, with the bands of
   love, [99] and of friendship. Doubtless, Theotimus, we are not drawn to
   God by iron chains, as bulls and wild oxen, but by enticements, sweet
   attractions, and holy inspirations, which, in a word, are the cords of
   Adam, and of humanity, that is, proportionate and adapted to the human
   heart, to which liberty is natural. The band of the human will is
   delight and pleasure. We show nuts to a child, says S. Augustine, and
   he is drawn by his love, he is drawn by the cords, not of the body, but
   of the heart. Mark then how the Eternal Father draws us: while
   teaching, he delights us, not imposing upon us any necessity; he casts
   into our hearts delectations and spiritual pleasures as sacred baits,
   by which he sweetly draws us to take and taste the sweetness of his
   doctrine.

   In this way then, dearest Theotimus, our free-will is in no way forced
   or necessitated by grace, but notwithstanding the all-powerful force of
   God's merciful hand, which touches, surrounds and ties the soul with
   such a number of inspirations, invitations and attractions, this human
   will remains perfectly free, enfranchised and exempt from every sort of
   constraint and necessity. Grace is so gracious, and so graciously
   seizes our hearts to draw them, that she noways offends the liberty of
   our will; she touches powerfully but yet so delicately the springs of
   our spirit that our free will suffers no violence from it. Grace has
   power, not to force but to entice the heart; she has a holy violence
   not to violate our liberty but to make it full of love; she acts
   strongly, yet so sweetly that our will is not overwhelmed by so
   powerful an action; she presses us but does not oppress our liberty; so
   that under the very action of her power, we can consent to or resist
   her movements as we list. But what is as admirable as it is veritable
   is, that when our will follows the attractions and consents to the
   divine movement, she follows as freely as she resists freely when she
   does resist, although the consent to grace depends much more on grace
   than on the will, while the resistance to grace depends upon the will
   only. So sweet is God's hand in the handling of our hearts! So
   dexterous is it in communicating unto us its strength without depriving
   us of liberty, and in imparting unto us the motion of its power without
   hindering that of our will! He adjusts his power to his sweetness in
   such sort, that as in what regards good his might sweetly gives us the
   power, so his sweetness mightily maintains the freedom of the will. If
   thou didst know the gift of God, said our Saviour to the Samaritan
   woman, and who he is that saith to thee, give me to drink; thou perhaps
   wouldst have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
   [100] Note, I pray you, Theotimus, Our Saviour's manner of speaking of
   his attractions. If thou didst know, he means, the gift of God, thou
   wouldst without doubt be moved and attracted to ask the water of
   eternal life, and perhaps thou wouldst ask it. As though he said: Thou
   wouldst have power and wouldst be provoked to ask, yet in no wise be
   forced or constrained; but only perhaps thou wouldst have asked, for
   thy liberty would remain to ask it or not to ask it. Such are our
   Saviour's words according to the ordinary edition, and according to S.
   Augustine upon S. John.

   To conclude, if any one should say that our free-will does not
   co-operate in consenting to the grace with which God prevents it, or
   that it could not reject and deny consent thereto, he would contradict
   the whole Scripture, all the ancient Fathers, and experience, and would
   be excommunicated by the sacred Council of Trent. But when it is said
   that we have power to reject the divine inspirations and motions, it is
   of course not meant that we can hinder God from inspiring us or
   touching our hearts, for as I have already said, that is done in us and
   yet without us. These are favours which God bestows upon us before we
   have thought of them, he awakens us when we sleep, and consequently we
   find ourselves awake before we have thought of it; but it is in our
   power to rise, or not to rise, and though he has awakened us without
   us, he will not raise us without us. Now not to rise, and to go to
   sleep again, is to resist the call, seeing we are called only to the
   end we should rise. We cannot hinder the inspiration from taking us, or
   consequently from setting us in motion, but if as it drives us forwards
   we repulse it by not yielding ourselves to its motion, we then make
   resistance. So the wind, having seized upon and raised our apodes, will
   not bear them very far unless they display their wings and co-operate,
   raising themselves aloft and flying in the air, into which they have
   been lifted. If, on the contrary, allured may be by some verdure they
   see upon the ground, or benumbed by their stay there, in lieu of
   seconding the wind they keep their wings folded and cast themselves
   again upon the earth, they have received indeed the motion of the wind,
   but in vain, since they did not help themselves thereby. Theotimus,
   inspirations prevent us, and even before they are thought of make
   themselves felt, but after we have felt them it is ours either to
   consent to them so as to second and follow their attractions, or else
   to dissent and repulse them. They make themselves felt by us without
   us, but they do not make us consent without us.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [98] Acts ix. 15.

   [99] Osee xi. 4.

   [100] John iv. 10.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   OF THE FIRST SENTIMENTS OF LOVE WHICH DIVINE INSPIRATIONS CAUSE IN THE
   SOUL BEFORE SHE HAS FAITH.

   The wind that raises the apodes blows first upon their feathers, as the
   parts most light and most susceptible of its agitation, by which it
   gives the beginning of motion to their wings, extending and displaying
   them in such sort that they give a hold by which to seize the bird and
   waft it into the air. And if they, thus raised, do contribute the
   motion of their wings to that of the wind, the same wind that took them
   will still aid them more and more to fly with ease. Even so, my dear
   Theotimus, when the inspiration, as a sacred gale, comes to blow us
   forward into the air of holy love, it first takes our will, and by the
   sentiment of some heavenly delectation it moves it, extending and
   unfolding the natural inclination which the will has to good, so that
   this same inclination serves as a hold by which to seize our spirit.
   And all this, as I have said, is done in us without us, for it is the
   divine favour that prevents us in this sort. But if our will thus
   holily prevented, perceiving the wings of her inclination moved,
   displayed, extended, stirred, and agitated, by this heavenly wind,
   contributes, be it never so little, its consent--Ah! how happy it is,
   Theotimus. The same favourable inspiration which has seized us,
   mingling its action with our consent, animating our feeble motions with
   its vigour, and vivifying our weak cooperation by the power of its
   operation, will aid, conduct, and accompany us, from love to love, even
   unto the act of most holy faith requisite for our conversion.

   True God! Theotimus, what a consolation it is to consider the secret
   method by which the Holy Ghost pours into our hearts the first rays and
   feelings of his light and vital heat! O Jesus! how delightful a
   pleasure it is to see celestial love, which is the sun of virtues, as
   little by little with a progress which insensibly becomes sensible, it
   displays its light upon a soul, and stops not till it has it all
   covered with the splendour of its presence, giving it at last the
   perfect beauty of love's day! O how cheerful, beautiful, sweet and
   agreeable this daybreak is! Nevertheless true it is that break of day
   is either not day, or if it be day, it is but a beginning day, a rising
   of the day, and rather the infancy of the day than the day itself. In
   like manner without doubt these motions of love which forerun the act
   of faith required for our justification are either not love properly
   speaking, or but a beginning and imperfect love. They are the first
   verdant buds which the soul, warmed with the heavenly sun, begins, as a
   mystical tree, to put forth in springtime, rather presages of fruit
   than fruit itself.

   S. Pachomius then a young soldier and without knowledge of God,
   enrolled under the colours of the army which Constantine had levied
   against the tyrant Maxentius, came, with the troop to which he
   belonged, to lodge nigh a little town not far distant from Thebes,
   where he, and indeed the whole army, were in extreme want of victuals.
   The inhabitants of the little town having understood this, being by
   good fortune of the faithful of Jesus Christ, and consequently friendly
   and charitable to their neighbours, immediately succoured the soldiers
   in their necessities, but with such care, courtesy and love, that
   Pachomius was struck with admiration thereat, and asking what nation it
   was that was so good, amiable and gracious, it was answered him that
   they were Christians; and inquiring again what law and manner of life
   were theirs, he learned that they believed in Jesus Christ the only Son
   of God, and did good to all sorts of people, with a firm hope of
   receiving from God himself an ample recompense. Alas! Theotimus, the
   poor Pachomius, though of a good natural disposition, was as yet asleep
   in the bed of his infidelity, and behold how upon a sudden God was
   present at the gate of his heart, and by the good example of these
   Christians, as by a sweet voice, he calls him, awakens him, and gives
   him the first feelings of the vital heat of his love. For scarcely had
   he heard, as I have said, of the sweet law of Our Saviour, than, all
   filled with a new light and interior consolation, having retired apart,
   and mused for a space, he lifted up his hands towards heaven, and with
   a profound sigh he said: Lord God, who hast made heaven and earth, if
   thou deign to cast thine eyes upon my baseness and misery, and to give
   me the knowledge of thy divinity, I promise to serve thee, and obey thy
   commandments all the days of my life! After this prayer and promise,
   the love of the true good and of piety so increased in him, that he
   ceased not to practise a thousand thousand acts of virtue.

   Methinks I see in this example a nightingale which, awaking at the peep
   of day, begins to stir, and to stretch itself, unfold its plumes, skip
   from branch to branch in its grove, and little by little warble out its
   delicious wood-music. For did you not note, how the good example of the
   charitable Christians excited and awakened with a sudden start the
   blessed Pachomius? Truly this astonished admiration he had was nothing
   else than his awakening, in which God touched him, as the sun touches
   the earth, with a ray of his brightness, which filled him with a great
   feeling of spiritual pleasure. For which cause Pachomius shakes himself
   loose from distractions, to the end he may with more attention and
   facility gather together and relish the grace he has received,
   withdrawing himself to think thereupon. Then he extends his heart and
   hands towards heaven, whither the inspiration is drawing him, and
   beginning to display the wings of his affections, flying between
   diffidence of himself, and confidence in God, he entones in a humbly
   amorous air the canticle of his conversion. He first testifies that he
   already knows one only God Creator of heaven and earth: but withal he
   knows that he does not yet know him sufficiently to serve him as he
   ought, and therefore he petitions that a more perfect knowledge may be
   imparted to him, that thereby he may come to the perfect service of his
   divine majesty.

   Behold, therefore, I pray you, Theotimus, how gently God moves,
   strengthening by little and little the grace of his inspiration in
   consenting hearts, drawing them after him, as it were step by step,
   upon this Jacob's ladder. But what are his drawings? The first, by
   which he prevents and awakens us, is done by him in us and without our
   action; all the others are also done by him and in us, but not without
   our action. Draw me: says the sacred spouse, we will run after thee to
   the odour of thy ointments, [101] that is, begin thou first: I cannot
   awake of myself, I cannot move unless thou move me; but when thou shalt
   once have given motion, then, O dear spouse of my heart, we run, we
   two, thou runnest before me drawing me ever forward, and, as for me, I
   will follow thee in thy course consenting to thy drawing. But let no
   one think that thou draggest me after thee like a forced slave, or a
   lifeless wagon. Ah! no, thou drawest me by the odour of thy ointments;
   though I follow thee, it is not that thou trailest me but that thou
   enticest me; thy drawing is mighty, but not violent, since its whole
   force lies in its sweetness. Perfumes have no other force to draw men
   to follow them than their sweetness, and sweetness--how could it draw
   but sweetly and delightfully?

     __________________________________________________________________

   [101] Cant. i. 3.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   OF THE SENTIMENT OF DIVINE LOVE WHICH IS HAD BY FAITH.

   When God gives us faith he enters into our soul and speaks to our
   spirit, not by manner of discourse, but by way of inspiration,
   proposing in so sweet a manner unto the understanding that which ought
   to be believed, that the will receives therefrom a great complacency,
   so great indeed that it moves the understanding to consent and yield to
   truth without any doubt or distrust, and here lies the marvel: for God
   proposes the mysteries of faith to our souls amidst obscurities and
   darkness, in such sort that we do not see the truths but we only
   half-see them. [102] It is like what happens sometimes when the face of
   the earth is covered with mist so that we cannot see the sun, but only
   see a little more brightness in the direction where he is. Then, as one
   would say, we see it without seeing it; because on the one hand we see
   it not so well that we can truly say we see it, yet again we see it not
   so little that we can say we do not see it; and this is what we call
   half-seeing. And yet, when this obscure light of faith has entered our
   spirit, not by force of reasoning or show of argument, but solely by
   the sweetness of its presence, it makes the understanding believe and
   obey it with so much authority that the certitude it gives us of the
   truth surpasses all other certitudes, and keeps the understanding and
   all its workings in such subjection that they get no hearing in
   comparison with it.

   May I, Theotimus, have leave to say this? Faith is the chief beloved of
   our understanding, and may justly speak to human sciences which boast
   that they are more evident and clear than she, as did the sacred spouse
   to the other shepherdesses. I am black but beautiful, [103] --O human
   reasonings, O acquired knowledge! I am black, for I am amidst the
   obscurities of simple revelation, which have no apparent evidence, and
   which make me look black, putting me well-nigh out of knowledge: yet I
   am beautiful in myself by reason of my infinite certainty; and if
   mortal eyes could behold me such as I am by nature they would find me
   all fair. And must it not necessarily follow that in effect I am
   infinitely to be loved, since the gloomy darkness and thick mists, amid
   which I am--not seen but only half-seen cannot hinder me from being so
   dearly loved, that the soul, prizing me above all, cleaving the crowd
   of all other knowledges, makes them all give place to me and receives
   me as his queen, placing me on the highest throne in his palace, from
   whence I give the law to all sciences, and keep all argument and all
   human sense under? Yea, verily, Theotimus, even as the commanders of
   the army of Israel taking off their garments, put them together and
   made a royal throne of them, on which they placed Jehu, and said: Jehu
   is king: [104] so on the arrival of faith, the understanding puts off
   all discourse and arguments, and laying them underneath faith, makes
   her sit upon them, acknowledging her as Queen, and with great joy cries
   out: Long live faith!

   Pious discourses and arguments, the miracles and other advantages of
   the Christian religion, make it extremely credible and knowable, but
   faith alone makes it believed and acknowledged, enamouring men with the
   beauty of its truth, and making them believe the truth of its beauty,
   by means of the sweetness faith pours into their wills, and the
   certitude which it gives to their understanding. The Jews saw the
   miracles and heard the marvellous teachings of Our Saviour, but being
   indisposed to receive faith, that is, their will not being susceptible
   of the gentle sweetness of faith, on account of the bitterness and
   malice with which they were filled, they persisted in their infidelity.
   They perceived the force of the argument, but they relished not the
   sweetness of the conclusion, and therefore did not acquiesce in its
   truth. But the act of faith consists in this very acquiescence of our
   spirit, which having received the grateful light of truth, accepts it
   by means of a sweet, yet powerful and solid assurance and certitude
   which it finds in the authority of the revelation which has been made
   to her.

   You have heard, Theotimus, that in general councils there are great
   disputations and inquiries made about truth by discourse, reasons and
   theological arguments, but the matters being discussed, the Fathers,
   that is, the bishops, and especially the Pope who is the chief of the
   bishops, conclude, resolve and determine; and the determination being
   once pronounced, every one fully accepts it and acquiesces in it, not
   in consideration of the reasons alleged in the preceding discussion and
   inquisition, but in virtue of the authority of the Holy Ghost, who,
   presiding invisibly in councils, has judged, determined and concluded,
   by the mouth of his servants whom he has established pastors of
   Christianity. The inquisition then and the disputation are made in the
   priests' court by the doctors, but the resolution and acquiescence are
   formed in the sanctuary, where the Holy Ghost who animates the body of
   his Church, speaks by the mouth of its chiefs, as Our Lord has
   promised. In like manner the ostrich lays her eggs upon the sands of
   Libya, but the sun alone hatches her young ones; and doctors by their
   inquiry and discourse propose truth, but only the beams of the sun of
   justice give certainty and acquiescence. To conclude then, Theotimus,
   this assurance which man's reason finds in things revealed and in the
   mysteries of faith, begins by an amorous sentiment of complacency which
   the will receives from the beauty and sweetness of the proposed truth;
   so that faith includes a beginning of love, which the heart feels
   towards divine things.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [102] Nous ne voyons pas, ains seluement nous entrevoyons.

   [103] Cant. i. 4.

   [104] 4 Kings ix. 13.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XV.

   OF THE GREAT SENTIMENT OF LOVE WHICH WE RECEIVE BY HOLY HOPE.

   As when exposed to the rays of the sun at mid-day, we hardly see the
   brightness before we suddenly feel the heat; so the light of faith has
   no sooner spread the splendour of its truths in our understanding, but
   immediately our will feels the holy heat of heavenly love. Faith makes
   us know by an infallible certitude that God is, that he is infinite in
   goodness, that he can communicate himself unto us, and not only that he
   can, but that he will; so that by an ineffable sweetness he has
   provided us with all things requisite to obtain the happiness of
   immortal glory. Now we have a natural inclination to the sovereign
   good, by reason of which our heart is touched with a certain inward
   anxious desire and continual uneasiness, not being able in any way to
   quiet itself, or to cease to testify that its perfect satisfaction and
   solid contentment are wanting to it. But when holy faith has
   represented to our understanding this lovely object of our natural
   inclination,--Oh! Theotimus, what joy! what pleasure! how our whole
   soul is thrilled, and, all amazed at the sight of so excellent a
   beauty, it cries out with love: Behold, thou art fair, my beloved,
   behold thou art fair! [105]

   Eliezer sought a wife for the son of his master Abraham; how could he
   tell whether he should find her beautiful and gracious as he desired?
   But when he had found her at the fountain, and saw her so excellent in
   beauty and so perfect in sweetness, and especially when he had obtained
   her, he adored God, and blessed him with thanksgiving, full of
   incomparable joy. Man's heart tends to God by its natural inclination,
   without fully knowing what he is; but when it finds him at the fountain
   of faith, and sees him so good, so lovely, so sweet and gracious to
   all, and so ready to give himself, as the sovereign good, to all who
   desire him,--O God! what delight! and what sacred movements in the
   soul, to unite itself for ever to this goodness so sovereignty amiable!
   I have found, says the soul thus inspired, I have at last found that
   which my heart desired, and now I am at rest. And as Jacob, having seen
   the fair Rachel, after he had holily kissed her, melted into tears of
   sweetness for the happiness he experienced in so desirable a meeting,
   so our poor heart, having found God, and received of him the first
   kiss, the kiss of holy faith, it dissolves forthwith in sweetness of
   love for the infinite good which it presently discovers in that
   sovereign beauty.

   We sometimes experience in ourselves a certain joyousness which comes
   as it were unexpectedly, without any apparent reason, and this is often
   a presage of some greater joy; whence many are of opinion that our good
   angels, foreseeing the good which is coming unto us, give us by this
   means a foretaste thereof, as on the contrary they give us certain
   fears and terrors amidst dangers we are not aware of, to make us invoke
   God's assistance and stand upon our guard. Now when the presaged good
   arrives, we receive it with open arms, and reflecting upon the
   joyousness we formerly felt without knowing its cause, we only then
   begin to perceive that it was a forerunner of the happiness we now
   enjoy. Even so, my dear Theotimus, our heart having had for so long a
   time an inclination to its sovereign good, knew not to what end this
   motion tended: but so soon as faith has shown it, then man clearly
   discerns that this was what his soul coveted, his understanding sought,
   and his inclination tended towards. Certainly, whether we wish or wish
   not, our soul tends towards the sovereign good. But what is this
   sovereign good? We are like those good Athenians who sacrificed unto
   the true God, although he was unknown to them, till the great S. Paul
   taught them the knowledge of him. For so our heart, by a deep and
   secret instinct, in all its actions tends towards, and aims at,
   felicity, seeking it here and there, as it were groping, without
   knowing where it resides, or in what it consists, till faith shows and
   describes the infinite marvels thereof. But then, having found the
   treasure it sought for,--ah! what a satisfaction to this poor human
   heart! What joy, what complacency of love! O I have met with him, whom
   my heart sought for without knowing him! O how little I knew whither my
   aims tended, when nothing contented me of all I aimed at, because, in
   fact, I knew not what I was aiming at. I was seeking to love and knew
   not what to love, and therefore my intention not finding its true love,
   my love remained ever in a true but ignorant intention. I had indeed
   sufficient foretaste of love to make me seek, but not sufficient
   knowledge of the goodness I had to love, to actually practise love.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [105] Cant. i. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVI.

   HOW LOVE IS PRACTISED IN HOPE.

   Man's understanding then, being property applied to the consideration
   of that which faith represents to it touching its sovereign good, the
   will instantly conceives an extreme complacency in this divine object,
   which, as yet absent, begets an ardent desire of its presence, whence
   the soul holily cries out: Let him kiss me with the kiss of his mouth.
   [106] My soul panteth after thee, O God. [107]

   And as the unhooded falcon having her prey in view suddenly launches
   herself upon the wing, and if held in her leash struggles upon the hand
   with extreme ardour; so faith, having drawn the veil of ignorance, and
   made us see our sovereign good, whom nevertheless we cannot yet
   possess, detained by the condition of this mortal life,--Ah! Theotimus,
   we then desire it in such sort that, as the hart panteth after the
   fountains of waters; so my soul panteth after thee, O God! My soul hath
   thirsted after the strong living God; when shall I come and appear
   before the face of God? [108]

   This desire is just, Theotimus, for who would not desire so desirable a
   good? But it would be a useless desire, and would be but a continual
   torment to our heart if we had not assurance that we should at length
   satiate it. He who on account of the delay of this happiness, protests
   that his tears were his ordinary bread day and night, so long as his
   God was absent, and his enemies demanded: where is thy God? [109]
   --Alas! what would he have done if he had not had some hope of one day
   enjoying this good, after which he sighed. The divine spouse goes
   weeping and languishing with love, [110] because she does not at once
   find the well-beloved she is searching for. The love of the
   well-beloved had bred in her a desire, that desire begot an ardour to
   pursue it, and that ardour caused in her a languishing which would have
   consumed and annihilated her poor heart, unless she had hoped at length
   to meet with what she sought after. So then, lest the unrest and
   dolorous languor which the efforts of desiring love cause in our souls
   should make us fail in courage or reduce us to despair, the same
   sovereign good which moves in us so vehement a desire, also by a
   thousand thousand promises made in his Word and his inspirations, gives
   us assurance, that we may with ease obtain it, provided always that we
   will to employ the means which he has prepared for use and offers us to
   this effect.

   Now these divine promises and assurances, by a particular marvel,
   increase the cause of our disquiet, and yet, while they increase the
   cause, they undo and destroy the effects. Yea, verily, Theotimus; for
   the assurance which God gives us that paradise is ours, infinitely
   strengthens the desire we have to enjoy it, and yet weakens, yea
   altogether destroys, the trouble and disquiet which this desire brought
   unto us; so that our hearts by the promises which the divine goodness
   has made us, remain quite calmed, and this calm is the root of the most
   holy virtue which we call hope. For the will, assured by faith that she
   has power to enjoy the sovereign good by using the means appointed,
   makes two great acts of virtue: by the one she expects from God the
   fruition of his sovereign goodness, by the other she aspires to that
   holy fruition.

   And indeed, Theotimus, between hoping and aspiring (esperer et aspirer)
   there is but this difference, that we hope for those things which we
   expect to get by another's assistance, and we aspire unto those things
   which we think to reach by means that lie in our own power. And since
   we attain the fruition of our sovereign good, which is God, by his
   favour, grace and mercy, and yet the same mercy will have us co-operate
   with his favour, by contributing the weakness of our consent to the
   strength of his grace; our hope is thence in some sort mingled with
   aspiring, so that we do not altogether hope without aspiring, nor do we
   ever aspire without entirely hoping. Hope then keeps ever the principal
   place, as being founded upon divine grace, without which, as we cannot
   even so much as think of our sovereign good in the way required to
   reach it, so can we never without this grace aspire towards our
   sovereign God in the way required to obtain it.

   Aspiration then is a scion of hope, as our co-operation is of grace:
   and as those that would hope without aspiring, would be rejected as
   cowardly and negligent; so those that should aspire without hoping,
   would be rash, insolent and presumptuous. But when hope is seconded
   with aspiration, when, hoping we aspire and aspiring we hope, then dear
   Theotimus, hope by aspiration becomes a courageous desire, and
   aspiration is changed by hope into a humble claim, and we hope and
   aspire as God inspires us. But both are caused by that desiring love
   which tends to our sovereign good, to that good which the more surely
   it is hoped for, the more it is loved; yea hope is no other thing than
   the loving complacency we take in the expecting and seeking our
   sovereign good. All that is there is love, Theotimus. As soon as faith
   has shown me my sovereign good, I have loved it; and because it was
   absent I have desired it, and having understood that it would bestow
   itself upon me, I have loved and desired it yet more ardently; for
   indeed its goodness is so much more to be beloved and desired by how
   much more it is disposed to communicate itself. Now by this progress
   love has turned its desire into hope, seeking and expectation, so that
   hope is an expectant and aspiring love; and because the sovereign good
   which hope expects is God, and because also she expects it from God
   himself, to whom and by whom she hopes and aspires, this holy virtue of
   hope, abutting everywhere on God, is by consequence a divine or
   theological virtue.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [106] Cant. i. 1.

   [107] Ps. xli. 1.

   [108] Ibid. 1, 2.

   [109] Ps. xli. 4.

   [110] Cant. v. 8.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVII.

   THAT THE LOVE WHICH IS IN HOPE IS VERY GOOD, THOUGH IMPERFECT.

   The love which we practise in hope goes indeed to God, Theotimus, but
   it returns to us; its sight is turned upon the divine goodness, yet
   with some respect to our own profit; it tends to that supreme
   perfection, but aiming at our own satisfaction. That is to say, it
   bears us to God, not because he is sovereignty good in himself, but
   because he is sovereignty good to us, in which as you see there is
   something of the our and the us, so that this love is truly love, but
   love of cupidity and self-interest. Yet I do not say that it does in
   such sort return to ourselves that it makes us love God only for the
   love of ourselves; O God! no: for the soul which should only love God
   for the love of herself, placing the end of the love which she bears to
   God in her own interest, would, alas! commit an extreme sacrilege. If a
   wife loved her husband only for the love of his servant, she would love
   her husband as a servant, and his servant as a husband: and the soul
   that only loves God for love of herself, loves herself as she ought to
   love God, and God as she ought to love herself.

   But there is a great difference between this expression: I love God for
   the good which I expect from him, and this: I only love God for the
   good which I expect from him: as again it is a very different thing to
   say: I love God for myself: and I love God for the love of myself. For
   when I say I love God for myself, it is as if I said: I love to have
   God, I love that God should be mine, should be my sovereign good; which
   is a holy affection of the heavenly spouse, who a hundred times in
   excess of delight protests: My beloved to me, and I to him, who feedeth
   among the lilies. [111] But to say: I love God for love of myself, is
   as if one should say; the love which I bear to myself is the end for
   which I love God; in such sort that the love of God would be dependent,
   subordinate, and inferior to self-love, to our love for ourselves,
   which is a matchless impiety.

   This love, then, which we term hope, is a love of cupidity, but of a
   holy and well-ordered cupidity, by means whereof we do not draw God to
   us nor to our utility, but we adjoin ourselves unto him as to our final
   felicity. By this love we love ourselves together with God, yet not
   preferring or equalizing ourselves to him; in this love the love of
   ourselves is mingled with that of God, but that of God floats on the
   top; our own love enters indeed, but as a simple motive, not as a
   principal end; our own interest has some place there, but God holds the
   principal rank. Yes, without doubt, Theotimus: for when we love God as
   our sovereign good, we love him for a quality by which we do not refer
   him to us but ourselves to him. We are not his end, aim, or perfection,
   but he is ours; he does not appertain to us, but we to him; he depends
   not on us but we on him; and, in a word, by the quality of sovereign
   good for which we love him, he receives nothing of us, but we receive
   of him. He exercises towards us his affluence and goodness, and we our
   indigence and scarcity; so that to love God under the title of
   sovereign good is to love him under an honourable and respectful title,
   by which we acknowledge him to be our perfection, repose and end, in
   the fruition of which our felicity consists. Some goods there are which
   we use for ourselves when we employ them, as our slaves, servants,
   horses, clothes: and the love which we bear unto them is a love of pure
   cupidity, since we love them only for our own profit. Other goods there
   are which we possess, but with a possession which is reciprocal and
   equal on each side, as in the case of our friends: for the love we have
   unto them inasmuch as they content us is indeed a love of cupidity, yet
   of an honest cupidity, by which they are ours and we similarly theirs,
   they belong to us and we equally to them. But there are yet other goods
   which we possess with a possession of dependence, participation and
   subjection, as we do the benevolence, or presence, or favour of our
   pastors, princes, father, mother: for the love which we bear unto them
   is then truly a love of cupidity, when we love them in that they are
   our pastors, our princes, our fathers, our mothers, since it is not
   precisely the quality of pastor, nor of prince, nor of father, nor of
   mother, which is the cause of our affection towards them, but the fact
   that they are so to us and in our regard. Still this cupidity is a love
   of respect, reverence and honour; for we love our father, for example,
   not because he is ours but because we are his; and after the same
   manner it is that we love and aspire to God by hope, not to the end he
   may become our good, but because he is it; not to the end he may become
   ours, but because we are his; not as though he existed for us, but
   inasmuch as we exist for him.

   And note, Theotimus, that in this love, the reason why we love (that
   is, why we apply our heart to the love of the good which we desire) is
   because it is our good; but the measure and quantity of this love
   depend on the excellence and dignity of the good which we love. We love
   our benefactors because they are such to us, but we love them more or
   less as they are more or less our benefactors. Why then do we love God,
   Theotimus, with this love of cupidity? Because he is our good. But why
   do we sovereignly love him? Because he is our sovereign good.

   But when I say we love God sovereignly, I do not therefore say that we
   love him with sovereign love. Sovereign love is only in charity,
   whereas in hope love is imperfect, because it does not tend to his
   infinite goodness as being such in itself, but only because it is such
   to us. Still, because in this kind of love there is no motive more
   excellent than that which proceeds from the consideration of the
   sovereign good, we say that by it we love sovereignly, though in real
   truth no one is able by virtue of this love either to keep God's
   commandments, or obtain life everlasting, because it is a love that
   yields more affection than effect, when it is not accompanied with
   charity.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [111] Cant. ii. 16.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVIII.

   THAT LOVE IS EXERCISED IN PENITENCE, AND FIRST, THAT THERE ARE DIVERS
   SORTS OF PENITENCE.

   To speak generally, penitence is a repentance whereby a man rejects and
   detests the sin he has committed, with the resolution to repair as much
   as in him lies the offence and injury done to him against whom he has
   sinned. I comprehend in penitence a purpose to repair the offence,
   because that repentance does not sufficiently detest the fault which
   voluntarily permits the principal effect thereof, to wit the offence
   and injury, to subsist; and it permits it to subsist, so long as, being
   able in some sort to make reparation, it does not do so.

   I omit here the penitence of certain pagans, who, as Tertullian
   witnesses, had some appearances of it amongst them, but so vain and
   fruitless that they often had penitence for having done well; for I
   speak only of virtuous penitence, which according to the different
   motives whence it proceeds is also of various species. There is one
   sort purely moral and human, as was that of Alexander the Great, who
   having slain his dear Clitus determined to starve himself to death, so
   great, says Cicero, was the force of penitence: or that of Alcibiades,
   who, being convinced by Socrates that he was not a wise man, began to
   weep bitterly, being sorrowful and afflicted for not being what he
   ought to have been, as S. Augustine says. Aristotle also, recognising
   this sort of penitence, assures us that the intemperate man who of set
   purpose gives himself over to pleasures is wholly incorrigible, because
   he cannot repent, and he that is without repentance is incurable.

   Certainly, Seneca, Plutarch and the Pythagoreans, who so highly commend
   the examen of conscience, but especially the first, who speaks so
   feelingly of the torment which interior remorse excites in the soul,
   must have understood that there was a repentance; and as for the sage
   Epictetus, he so well describes the way in which a man should reprehend
   himself that it could scarcely be better expressed.

   There is yet another penitence which is indeed moral, yet religious
   too, yea in some sort divine, proceeding from the natural knowledge
   which we have of our offending God by sin. For certainly many
   philosophers understood that to live virtuously was a thing agreeable
   to the divinity, and that consequently to live viciously was offensive
   to him. The good man Epictetus makes the wish to die a true Christian
   (as it is very probable he did), and amongst other things he says he
   should be content if dying he could lift up his hands to God and say
   unto him: For my part I have not dishonoured Thee: and, further, he
   will have his philosopher to make an admirable oath to God never to be
   disobedient to his divine Majesty, nor to question or blame anything
   coming from him, nor in any sort to complain thereof; and in another
   place he teaches that God and our good angel are present during our
   actions. You see clearly then, Theotimus, that this philosopher, while
   yet a pagan, knew that sin offended God, as virtue honoured him, and
   consequently he willed that it should be repented of, since he even
   ordained an examen of conscience at night, about which, with
   Pythagoras, he lays down this maxim


   If thou hast ill done, chide thyself bitterly,

   If thou hast well done, rest thee contentedly.


   Now this kind of repentance joined to the knowledge and love of God
   which nature can give, was a dependence of moral religion. But as
   natural reason bestowed more knowledge than love upon the philosophers,
   who did not glorify God in proportion to the knowledge they had of him,
   so nature has furnished more light to understand how much God is
   offended by sin, than heat to excite the repentance necessary for the
   reparation of the offence.

   But although religious penitence may have been in some sort recognized
   by some of the philosophers, yet this has been so rarely and feebly,
   that those who were reputed the most virtuous amongst them, to wit the
   Stoics, maintained that the wise man was never grieved, whereupon they
   framed a maxim as contrary to reason, as the proposition on which it
   was grounded was contrary to experience, namely, that the wise man
   sinned not.

   We may therefore well say, Theotimus, that penitence is a virtue wholly
   Christian, since on the one side it was so little known to the pagans,
   and, on the other side, it is so well recognized amongst true
   Christians, that in it consists a great part of the evangelical
   philosophy, according to which whosoever affirms that he sins not, is
   senseless, and whosoever expects without penitence to redress his sin
   is mad; for it is our Saviour's exhortation of exhortations: Do
   penance. [112] And now let me give a brief description of the progress
   of this virtue.

   We enter into a profound apprehending of the fact that, as far as is in
   us, we offend God by our sins, despising and dishonouring him, giving
   way to disobedience and rebellion against him; and he also on his part
   considers himself as offended, irritated, and despised; for he
   dislikes, reproves and abominates iniquity. From this true apprehension
   there spring several motives, which all, or several together, or each
   one apart, may carry us to this repentance.

   For we consider sometimes how God who is offended has established a
   rigorous punishment in hell for sinners, and how he will deprive them
   of the paradise prepared for the good. And as the desire of paradise is
   extremely honourable, so the fear of losing it is an excellent fear;
   and not only so, but the desire of paradise being very worthy of
   esteem, the fear of its contrary, which is hell, is good and
   praiseworthy. Ah! who would not dread so great a loss, so great a
   torment! And this double fear--the one servile, the other
   mercenary--greatly bears us on towards a repentance for our sins, by
   which we have incurred them. And to this effect in the Holy Word this
   fear is a hundred and a hundred times inculcated. At other times we
   consider the deformity and malice of sin, according as faith teaches
   us; for example, because by it the likeness and image of God which we
   have, is defiled and disfigured, the dignity of our soul dishonoured,
   we are made like brute beasts, we have violated our duty towards the
   Creator of the world, forfeited the good of the society of the angels,
   to associate and subject ourselves to the devil, making ourselves
   slaves of our passions, overturning the order of reason, offending our
   good angels to whom we have so great obligations.

   At other times we are provoked to repentance by the beauty of virtue,
   which brings as much good with it as sin does evil; further we are
   often moved to it by the example of the saints; for who could ever have
   cast his eyes upon the exercises of the incomparable penitence of
   Magdalen, of Mary of Egypt, or of the penitents of the monastery called
   Prison, described by S. John Climacus, without being moved to
   repentance for his sins, since the mere reading of the history incites
   to it such as are not altogether insensible.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [112] Matt. iv. 17.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIX.

   THAT PENITENCE WITHOUT LOVE IS IMPERFECT.

   Now all these motives are taught us by faith and the Christian
   religion, and therefore the repentance which results from them is very
   laudable though imperfect. Laudable certainly it is, for neither Holy
   Scripture nor the Church would stir us up by such motives if the
   penitence thence proceeding were not good, and we see manifestly that
   it is a most reasonable thing to repent of sin for these
   considerations, yea, that it is impossible that he who considers them
   attentively should not repent. Yet still it is an imperfect repentance,
   because divine love is not as yet found in it. Ah! do you not see,
   Theotimus, that all these repentances are made for the sake of our own
   soul, of its felicity, of its interior beauty, its honour, its dignity,
   and in a word for love of ourselves, although a lawful, just and
   well-ordered love.

   And note, that I do not say that these repentances reject the love of
   God, but only that they do not include it; they do not repulse it, yet
   they do not contain it ; they are not contrary to it, but as yet are
   without it; it is not forbidden entrance, and yet it is not in. The
   will which simply embraces good is very good, yet if it so embrace this
   as to reject the better, it is truly ill-ordered, not in accepting the
   one but in repulsing the other. So the vow to give alms this day is
   good, yet the vow to give only this day is bad, because it would
   exclude the better, which is to give both to-day, to-morrow, and every
   day when we are able. Certainly it is good, and this cannot be denied,
   to repent of our sins in order to avoid the pains of hell and obtain
   heaven, but he that should make the resolution never to be willing to
   repent for any other motive, would wilfully shut out the better, which
   is to repent for the love of God, and would commit a great sin. And
   what father would not be ill pleased that his son was willing indeed to
   serve him, yet never with love, or by love?

   The beginning of good things is good, the progress better, the end the
   best. At the same time, it is as a beginning that the beginning is
   good, and as progress that progress is good: and to wish to finish the
   work by its beginning or in its progress would be to invert the order
   of things. Infancy is good, but to desire to remain always a child
   would be bad; for the child of a hundred years old is despised. It is
   laudable to begin to learn, yet he that should begin with intention
   never to perfect himself would go against all reason. Fear, and those
   other motives of repentance of which I spoke, are good for the
   beginning of Christian wisdom, which consists in penitence; but he who
   deliberately willed not to attain to love which is the perfection of
   penitence, would greatly offend him who ordained all to his love, as to
   the end of all things.

   To conclude: the repentance which excludes the love of God is infernal
   like to that of the damned. The repentance which does not reject the
   love of God, though as yet it be without it, is a good and desirable
   penitence, but imperfect, and it cannot give salvation until it attain
   love and is mingled therewith. So that as the great Apostle said that
   though he should deliver his body to be burned, and all his goods to
   the poor, wanting charity it would profit him nothing, [113] so we may
   truly say, that though our penitence were so great that it should cause
   our eyes to dissolve in tears, and our hearts to break with sorrow, yet
   if we have not the holy love of God, all this would profit nothing for
   eternal life.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [113] 1 Cor. xiii. 3.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XX.

   HOW THE MINGLING OF LOVE AND SORROW TAKES PLACE IN CONTRITION.

   Nature, as far as I know, never converts fire into water, though some
   waters turn into fire. Yet God did it once by miracle. For as it is
   written in the Book of Machabees, [114] when the children of Israel
   were conducted into Babylon, in the time of Sedecias, the priests, by
   the counsel of Jeremias, hid the holy fire in a valley, in a dry well,
   and upon their return, the children of those that had hid it went to
   seek it, following the direction their fathers had given them, and they
   found it converted into a thick water, which being drawn by them, and
   poured upon the sacrifices, as Nehemias commanded, was, when the
   sunbeams touched it, converted into a great fire.

   Theotimus, amongst the tribulations and remorse of a lively repentance
   God often puts in the bottom of our heart the sacred fire of his love,
   this love is converted into the water of tears, they by a second change
   into another and greater fire of love. Thus the famous penitent lover
   first loved her Saviour, her love was converted into tears, and these
   tears into an excellent love; whence Our Saviour told her that many
   sins were pardoned her because she had loved much. [115] And as we see
   fire turns wine into a certain water which is called almost everywhere
   aquavitæ, which so easily takes and augments fire that in many places
   it is also termed ardent; so the amorous consideration of the goodness
   which, while it ought to have been sovereignly loved, has been offended
   by sin, produces the water of holy penitence; and from this water the
   fire of divine love issues, thence properly termed water of life or
   ardent. Penitence is indeed a water in its substance, being a true
   displeasure, a real sorrow and repentance; yet is it ardent, in that it
   contains the virtue and properties of love, as arising from a motive of
   love, and by this property it gives the life of grace. So that perfect
   penitence has two different effects; for in virtue of its sorrow and
   detestation it separates us from sin and the creature, to which
   delectation had attached us; but in virtue of the motive of love,
   whence it takes its origin, it reconciles us and reunites us to our
   God, from whom we had separated ourselves by contempt: so that it at
   once reclaims us from sin in quality of repentance, and reunites us to
   God in quality of love.

   But I do not mean to say that the perfect love of God, by which we love
   him above all things, always precedes this repentance, or that this
   repentance always precedes this love. For though it often so happens,
   still at other times, as soon as divine love is born in our hearts,
   penitence is born within the love, and oftentimes penitence entering
   into our heart, love enters in penitence. And as when Esau was born,
   Jacob his twin brother held him by the foot, that their births might
   not only follow the one the other, but also might cleave together and
   be intermingled; so repentance, rude and rough in regard of its pain,
   is born first, as another Esau; and love, gentle and gracious as Jacob,
   holds him by the foot, and cleaves unto him so closely that their birth
   is but one, since the end of the birth of repentance is the beginning
   of that of perfect love. Now as Esau first appeared so repentance
   ordinarily makes itself to be seen before love, but love, as another
   Jacob, although the younger, afterwards subdues penitence, converting
   it into consolation.

   Mark, I pray you, Theotimus, the well-beloved Magdalen, how she weeps
   with love: They have taken away my Lord, says she, melting into tears;
   and I know not where they have laid him, [116] but having with sighs
   and tears found him, she holds and possesses him by love. Imperfect
   love desires and runs after him, penitence seeks and finds him; perfect
   love holds and clasps him. It is with it as is said to be with
   Ethiopian rubies, whose fire is naturally very faint, but when they are
   dipped in vinegar it sparkles out and casts a most brilliant lustre:
   for the love which goes before repentance is ordinarily imperfect; but
   being steeped in the sharpness of penitence, it gains strength end
   becomes excellent love.

   It even happens sometimes that repentance, though perfect, contains not
   in itself the proper action of love, but only the virtue and property
   of it. You will ask me, what virtue or property of love can repentance
   have, if it have not the action? Theotimus, God's goodness is the
   motive of perfect repentance, which it displeases us to have offended:
   now this motive is a motive only because it stirs us and gives us
   movement. But the movement which the divine goodness gives unto the
   heart which considers it, can be no other than the movement of love,
   that is, of union. And therefore true repentance, though it seem not
   so, and though we perceive not the proper effect of love, yet ever
   takes the movement of love, and the unitive quality of love, by which
   it re-unites and re-joins us to the divine goodness. Tell me, I
   pray:--it is the property of the loadstone to draw and unite iron unto
   itself; but do we not see that iron touched with the loadstone, without
   having either it or its nature, but only its virtue and attractive
   quality, can draw and unite to itself another iron? So perfect
   repentance, touched with the motive of love, is not without the virtue
   and quality thereof, that is, the movement of union to re-join and
   re-unite our hearts to the divine will. But you will reply, what
   difference is there between this movement of penitence, and the proper
   action of love? Theotimus, the action of love is indeed a movement of
   union, but it is made by complacency, whereas the movement of union
   which is in penitence is not made by way of complacency, but by
   displeasure, repentance, reparation, reconciliation. Forasmuch
   therefore as this motive unites, it has the quality of love; inasmuch
   as it is bitter and dolorous it has the quality of penitence, and in
   fine, by its natural condition it is a true movement of penitence, but
   one which has the virtue and uniting quality of love.

   So Theriacum-wine is not so named because it contains the proper
   substance of Theriacum, for there is none at all in it; but it is so
   called because the plant of the vine having been steeped in Theriacum,
   the grapes and the wine which have sprung from it have drawn into
   themselves the virtue and operation of Theriacum against all sorts of
   poison. We must not therefore think it strange if penitence, according
   to the Holy scripture, blots out sin, saves the soul, makes her
   grateful God and justifies her, which are effects appertaining to love,
   and which apparently should only be attributed to love: for though love
   itself be not always found in perfect penitence, yet its virtue and
   properties are always there, having flowed into it by the motive of
   love whence it springs.

   Nor must we wonder that the force of love should be found in penitence
   before love be formed in it, since we see that by the reflection of the
   rays of the sun beating upon a mirror, heat, which is the virtue and
   the proper quality of fire, grows by little and little so strong that
   it begins to burn before it has yet well produced the fire, or at least
   before we have perceived it. For so the Holy Ghost casting into our
   understanding the consideration of the greatness of our sins, in that
   by them we have offended so sovereign a goodness, and our will
   receiving the reflection of this knowledge, repentance by little and
   little grows so strong, with a certain affective heat and desire to
   return into grace with God, that in fine this movement comes to such a
   height, that it burns and unites even before the love be fully formed,
   though love, as a sacred fire, is always at once lighted, at this
   point. So that repentance never comes to this height of burning and
   re-uniting the heart to God, which is her utmost perfection, without
   finding herself wholly converted into fire and flame of love, the end
   of the one giving the other a beginning; or rather, the end of
   penitence is within the commencement of love, as Esau's foot was within
   Jacob's hand; in such sort that while Esau was ending his birth, Jacob
   was beginning his, the end of the one's birth being joined and fastened
   to, yea, what is more, included in, the beginning of the other's: for
   so the beginning of perfect love not only follows the end of penitence
   but even cleaves and ties itself to it; and to say all in one word,
   this beginning of love mingles itself with the end of penitence, and in
   this moment of mingling, penitence and contrition merit life
   everlasting.

   Now because this loving repentance is ordinarily practised by
   elevations and raisings of the heart to God, like to those of the
   ancient penitents: I am thine, save thou me. Have mercy on me, O God,
   have mercy on me: for my soul trusteth in thee! Save me, O God; for the
   waters are come in even unto my soul! Make me as one of thy hired
   servants! O God be merciful to me a sinner!--it is not without reason
   that some have said, that prayer justifies; for the repentant prayer,
   or the suppliant repentance, raising up the soul to God and re-uniting
   it to his goodness, without doubt obtains pardon in virtue of the holy
   love, which gives it the sacred movement. And therefore we ought all to
   have very many such ejaculatory prayers, made in the sense of a loving
   repentance and of sighs which seek our reconciliation with God, so that
   by these laying our tribulation before Our Saviour, we may pour out our
   souls before and within his pitiful heart, which will receive them to
   mercy.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [114] 2 Mach. i.

   [115] Luke vii. 47.

   [116] John xx. 13.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XXI.

   HOW OUR SAVIOUR'S LOVING ATTRACTIONS ASSIST AND ACCOMPANY US TO FAITH
   AND CHARITY.

   Between the first awaking from sin or infidelity to the final
   resolution of a perfect belief, there often runs a good deal of time in
   which we are able to pray, as we have seen S. Pachomius did, and as
   that poor lunatic's father, who, as S. Mark relates, giving assurance
   that he believed, that is, that he began to believe, knew at the same
   time that he did not believe sufficiently; whence he cried out: I do
   believe, Lord help my unbelief, [117] as though he would say: I am no
   longer in the obscurity of the night of infidelity, the rays of your
   faith already enlighten the horizon of my soul: but still I do not yet
   believe as I ought; it is a knowledge as yet weak and mixed with
   darkness; Ah! Lord, help me. And the great S. Augustine solemnly
   pronounces these remarkable words: "But listen, O man! and understand.
   Art thou not drawn? pray, in order that thou mayest be drawn." In which
   words his intention is not to speak of the first movement which God
   works in us without us, when he excites and awakens us out of the sleep
   of sin: for how could we ask to be awakened seeing no man can pray
   before he be awakened? But he speaks of the resolution which we make to
   be faithful, for he considers that to believe is to be drawn, and
   therefore he admonishes such as have been excited to believe in God, to
   ask the gift of faith. And indeed no one could better know the
   difficulties which ordinarily pass between the first movement God makes
   in us, and the perfect resolution of believing fully, than S.
   Augustine, who having had so great a variety of attractions by the
   words of the glorious S. Ambrose, by the conference he had with
   Politian, and a thousand other means, yet made so many delays and had
   so much difficulty in resolving. For more truly to him than to any
   other might have been applied that which he afterwards said to others:
   Alas! Augustine, if thou be not drawn, if thou believe not, pray that
   thou mayest be drawn, and that thou mayest believe.

   Our Saviour draws hearts by the delights that he gives them, which make
   them find heavenly doctrine sweet and agreeable, but, until this
   sweetness has engaged and fastened the will by its beloved bonds to
   draw it to the perfect acquiescence and consent of faith, as God does
   not fail to exercise his greatness upon us by his holy inspirations, so
   does not our enemy cease to practise his malice by temptations. And
   meantime we remain in full liberty, to consent to the divine drawings
   or to reject them; for as the sacred Council of Trent has clearly
   decreed: "If any one should say that man's freewill, being moved and
   incited by God, does not in any way co-operate, by consenting to God,
   who moves and calls him that he may dispose and prepare himself to
   obtain the grace of justification, and that he is unable to refuse
   consent though he would," truly such a man would be excommunicated, and
   reproved by the Church. But if we do not repulse the grace of holy
   love, it dilates itself by continual increase in our souls, until they
   are entirely converted; like great rivers, which finding open plains
   spread themselves, and ever take up more space.

   But if the inspiration, having drawn us to faith, find no resistance in
   us, it draws us also to penitence and charity. S. Peter, as an apode,
   raised by the inspiration which came from the eyes of his master,
   freely letting himself be moved and carried by this gentle wind of the
   Holy Ghost, looks upon those life-giving eyes which had excited him; he
   reads as in the book of life the sweet invitation to pardon which the
   divine clemency offers him; he draws from it a just motive of hope; he
   goes out of the court, considers the horror of his sin, and detests it;
   he weeps, he sobs, he prostrates his miserable heart before his
   Saviour's mercy, craves pardon for his faults, makes a resolution of
   inviolable loyalty, and by this progress of movements, practised by the
   help of grace which continually conducts, assists, and helps him, he
   comes at length to the holy remission of his sins, and passes so from
   grace to grace: according to what S. Prosper lays down, that without
   grace a man doos not run to grace.

   So then to conclude this point, the soul, prevented by grace, feeling
   the first drawings, and consenting to their sweetness, as if returning
   to herself after a long swoon, begins to sigh out these words: Ah! my
   dear spouse, my friend! Draw me, I beseech thee, and take hold of me
   under my arms, for otherwise I am not able to walk: but if thou draw me
   we run, thou in helping me by the odour of thy perfumes, and I
   corresponding by my weak consent, and by relishing thy sweetnesses
   which strengthen and reinvigorate me, till the balm of thy sacred name,
   that is the salutary ointment of my justification be poured out over
   me. Do you see, Theotimus, she would not pray if she were not excited;
   but as soon as she is, and feels the attractions, she prays that she
   may be drawn; being drawn she runs, nevertheless she would not run if
   the perfumes which draw her and by which she is drawn did not inspirit
   her heart by the power of their precious odour; and as her course is
   more swift, and as she approaches nearer her heavenly spouse, she has
   ever a more delightful sense of the sweetnesses which he pours out,
   until at last he himself flows out in her heart, like a spread balm,
   whence she cries, as being surprised by this delight, not so quickly
   expected, and as yet unlooked for: O my spouse, thou art as balm poured
   into my bosom; it is no marvel that young souls cherish thee dearly.

   In this way, my dear Theotimus, the divine inspiration comes to us, and
   prevents use moving our wills to sacred love. And if we do not repulse
   it, it goes with us and keeps near us, to incite us and ever push us
   further forwards; and if we do not abandon it, it does not abandon us,
   till such time as it has brought us to the haven of most holy charity,
   performing for us the three good offices which the great angel Raphael
   fulfilled for his dear Tobias: for it guides us through all our journey
   of holy penitence, it preserves us from dangers and from the assaults
   of the devil, and it consoles, animates, and fortifies us in our
   difficulties.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [117] Mark ix. 23.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XXII.

   A SHORT DESCRIPTION OF CHARITY.

   Behold at length, Theotimus, how God, by a progress full of ineffable
   sweetness, conducts the soul which he makes leave the Egypt of sin,
   from love to love, as from mansion to mansion, till he has made her
   enter into the land of promise, I mean into most holy charity, which to
   say it in one word, is a friendship, and a disinterested love, for by
   charity we love God for his own sake, by reason of his most sovereignly
   amiable goodness. But this friendship is a true friendship, being
   reciprocal, for God has loved eternally all who have loved him, do, or
   shall love him temporally. It is shown and acknowledged mutually, since
   God cannot be ignorant of the love we bear him, he himself bestowing it
   upon us, nor can we be ignorant of his love to us, seeing that he has
   so published it abroad, and that we acknowledge all the good we have,
   to be true effects of his benevolence. And in fine we have continual
   communications with him, who never ceases to speak unto our hearts by
   inspirations, allurements, and sacred motions; he ceases not to do us
   good, or to give all sorts of testimonies of his most holy affection,
   having openly revealed unto us all his secrets, as to his confidential
   friends. And to crown his holy loving intercourse with us, he has made
   himself our proper food in the most holy Sacrament of the Eucharist;
   and as for us, we have freedom to treat with him at all times when we
   please in holy prayer, having our whole life, movement and being not
   only with him, but in him and by him.

   Now this friendship is not a simple friendship, but a friendship of
   dilection, by which we make election of God, to love him with a special
   love. He is chosen, says the sacred spouse, out of thousands [118]
   --she says out of thousands, but she means out of all, whence this love
   is not a love of simple excellence, but an incomparable love; for
   charity loves God by a certain esteem and preference of his goodness so
   high and elevated above all other esteems, that other loves either are
   not true loves in comparison of this, or if they be true loves, this
   love is infinitely more than love; and therefore, Theotimus, it is not
   a love which the force of nature either angelic or human can produce,
   but the Holy Ghost gives it and pours it abroad in our hearts. [119]
   And as our souls which give life to our bodies, have not their origin
   from the body but are put in them by the natural providence of God, so
   charity which gives life to our hearts has not her origin from our
   hearts, but is poured into them as a heavenly liquor by the
   supernatural providence of his divine Majesty.

   For this reason, and because it has reference to God and tends unto him
   not according to the natural knowledge we have of his goodness, but
   according to the supernatural knowledge of faith, we name it
   supernatural friendship. Whence it, together with faith and hope, makes
   its abode in the point and summit of the spirit, and, as a queen of
   majesty, is seated in the will as on her throne, whence she conveys
   into the soul her delights and sweetnesses, making her thereby all
   fair, agreeable and amiable to the divine goodness. So that if the soul
   be a kingdom of which the Holy Ghost is king, charity is the queen set
   at his right hand in gilded clothing surrounded with variety; [120] if
   the soul be a queen, spouse to the great king of heaven, charity is her
   crown, which royally adorns her head; and if the soul with the body be
   a little world, charity is the sun which beautifies all, heats all, and
   vivifies all.

   Charity, then, is a love of friendship, a friendship of dilection, a
   dilection of preference, but a preference incomparable, sovereign, and
   supernatural, which is as a sun in the whole soul to enlighten it with
   its rays, in all the spiritual faculties to perfect them, in all the
   powers to moderate them, but in the will as on its throne, there to
   reside and to make it cherish and love its God above all things. O how
   happy is the soul wherein this holy love is poured abroad, since all
   good things come together with her! [121]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [118] Cant. v. 10.

   [119] Rom v. 5.

   [120] Ps. xliv. 10.

   [121] Wisdom vii. 11.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK III.

   OF THE

  PROGRESS AND PERFECTION OF LOVE.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   THAT HOLY LOVE MAY BE AUGMENTED STILL MORE AND MORE IN EVERY ONE OF US.

   The sacred Council of Trent assures us, that the friends of God,
   proceeding from virtue to virtue, are day by day renewed, that is, they
   increase by good works in the justice which they have received by God's
   grace, and are more and more justified, according to those heavenly
   admonitions; He that is just let him be justified still: and he that is
   holy, let him be sanctified still. [122] And: Be not afraid to be
   justified even to death. [123] The path of the just, as a shining
   light, goeth forwards and increaseth even to perfect day. [124] Doing
   the truth in charity, let us in all things grow up in him who is the
   head, even Christ. [125] And finally: This I pray, that your charity
   may more and more abound in knowledge and in all understanding. [126]
   All these are sacred words out of David, S. John, Ecclesiasticus, and
   S. Paul.

   I never heard of any living creature whose growth was not bounded and
   limited, except the crocodile, who from an extremely little beginning
   never ceases to grow till it comes to its end, representing equally in
   this the good and the wicked: For the pride of them that hate thee
   ascendeth continually, [127] says the great king David; and the good
   increase as the break of day, from brightness to brightness. And to
   remain at a standstill is impossible; he that gains not, loses in this
   traffic; he that ascends not, descends upon this ladder; he that
   vanquishes not in this battle, is vanquished: we live amidst the
   dangers of the wars which our enemies wage against us, if we resist not
   we perish; and we cannot resist unless we overcome, nor overcome
   without triumph. For as the glorious S. Bernard says: "It is written in
   particular of man that he never continueth in the same state; [128] he
   necessarily either goes forward or returns backward. All run indeed but
   one obtains the prize, so run that you may obtain. [129] Who is the
   prize but Jesus Christ? And how can you take hold on him if you follow
   him not? But if you follow him you will march and run continually, for
   he never stayed, but continued his course of love and obedience until
   death and the death of the cross."

   Go then, says S. Bernard; go, I say with him; go, my dear Theotimus,
   and admit no other bounds than those of life, and as long as it remains
   run after this Saviour. But run ardently and swiftly: for what better
   will you be for following him, if you be not so happy as to take hold
   of him! Let us hear the Prophet: I have inclined my heart to do thy
   justifications for ever, [130] he does not say that he will do them for
   a time only, but for ever, and because he desires eternally to do well,
   he shall have an eternal reward. Blessed are the undefiled in the way,
   who walk in the law of the Lord. [131] Accursed are they who are
   defiled, who walk not in the law of the Lord: it is only for the devil
   to say that he will sit in the sides of the north. [132] Detestable
   one, wilt thou sit? Ah! knowest thou not that thou art upon the way,
   and that the way is not made to sit down but to go in, and it is so
   made to go in, that going is called making way. And God speaking to one
   of his greatest friends says: Walk before me and be perfect. [133]

   True virtue has no limits, it goes ever further; but especially holy
   charity, which is the virtue of virtues, and which, having an infinite
   object, would be capable of becoming infinite if it could meet with a
   heart capable of infinity. Nothing hinders this love from being
   infinite except the condition of the will which receives it, and which
   is to act by it: a condition which prevents any one loving God as much
   as God is amiable, as it prevents them from seeing him as much as he is
   visible. The heart which could love God with a love equal to the divine
   goodness would have a will infinitely good, which cannot be but in God.
   Charity then in us may be perfected up to the infinite, but
   exclusively; that is, charity may become more and more, and ever more,
   excellent, yet never infinite. The Holy Ghost may elevate our hearts,
   and apply them to what supernatural actions it may please him, so they
   be not infinite. Between little and great things, though the one exceed
   the other never so much, there is still some proportions provided
   always that the excess of the thing which exceeds be not an infinite
   excess: but between finite and infinite there is no proportion, and to
   make any, it would be necessary, either to raise the finite and make it
   infinite, or to lower the infinite and make it finite, which is
   impossible.

   So that even the charity which is in our Redeemer, as he is man, though
   greater than Angels or men can comprehend, yet is not infinite of
   itself and in its own being, but only in regard to its value and merit,
   as being the charity of a divine Person who is the eternal Son of the
   omnipotent Father.

   Meanwhile it is an extreme honour to our souls that they may still grow
   more and more in the love of their God, as long as they shall live in
   this failing life: Ascending by steps from virtue to virtue. [134]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [122] Apoc. xxii. 11.

   [123] Ecclus. xviii. 22.

   [124] Prov. iv. 18.

   [125] Eph. iv. 15.

   [126] Phil. i. 9.

   [127] Ps. lxxiii. 23.

   [128] Job xiv. 2.

   [129] 1 Cor. ix. 24.

   [130] Ps. cxviii. 112.

   [131] Ibid. 1.

   [132] Is. xiv. 13.

   [133] Gen. xvii. 1.

   [134] Ps. lxxxiii. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   HOW EASY OUR SAVIOUR HAS MADE THE INCREASE OF LOVE.

   Do you see, Theotimus, that glass of water or that piece of bread which
   a holy soul gives to a poor body for God's sake; it is a small matter,
   God knows, and in human judgment hardly worthy of consideration: God,
   notwithstanding, recompenses it, and forthwith gives for it some
   increase of charity. The goat's-hair which was anciently presented to
   the Tabernacle was received in good part, and had place amongst the
   holy offerings; and the little actions which proceed from charity are
   agreeable to God, and have their place among merits. For as in Araby
   the Blest, not only the plants which are by nature aromatic, but even
   all the others, are sweet, gaining a share in the felicity of that
   soil; so in a charitable soul not only the works which are excellent of
   their own nature, but also the little actions, smell of the virtue of
   holy love, and have a good odour before the majesty of God, who in
   consideration of them increases charity. And I say God does it, because
   Charity does not produce her own increase as a tree does, which by its
   own virtue produces and throws out, one from another, its boughs: but
   as Faith, Hope and Charity are virtues which have their origin from the
   divine goodness, so thence also they draw their increase and
   perfection, not unlike bees, which, having their extraction from honey,
   have also their food from it.

   Wherefore, as pearls are not only bred of dew but fed also with it, the
   mother-pearls to this end opening their shells towards heaven to beg,
   as it were, the drops which the freshness of the air makes fall at the
   break of day, so we, having received Faith, Hope and Charity from the
   heavenly bounty, ought always to turn our hears and keep them turned
   towards it, thence to obtain the continuation and augmentation of the
   same virtues. "O, Lord," does holy Church our mother teach us to say,
   "give us the increase of faith, hope and charity." And this is in
   imitation of those that said to Our Saviour: Lord increase our faith,
   [135] and following the counsel of S. Paul, who assures us that: God
   alone is able to make all grace abound in us. [136]

   It is God therefore that gives this increase, in consideration of the
   use we make of his grace, as it is written; For he that hath, that is,
   who uses well the favours received, to him shall be given, and he shall
   abound. [137] Thus is Our Saviour's exhortation practised: Lay up to
   yourselves treasures in heaven: [138] as though he said: add ever new
   good works to the former ones; for fasting, prayer and alms-deeds are
   the coins whereof your treasures are to consist. Now as amongst the
   treasures of the temple, the poor widow's mite was much esteemed, and
   as indeed, by the addition of many little pieces treasures become
   great, and their value increases, so the least little good works, even
   though performed somewhat coldly, and not according to the whole extent
   of the charity which is in us, are agreeable to God, and esteemed by
   him; in such sort that though of themselves they cannot cause any
   increase in the existing love, being of less force than it, yet the
   divine Providence, counting, and out of his goodness, valuing them,
   forthwith rewards them with increase of charity for the present, and
   assigns to them a greater heavenly glory for the future.

   Theotimus, bees make the delicious honey which is their chief work; but
   the wax, which they also make, does not therefore cease to be of some
   worth, or to make their labour valuable. The loving heart ought to
   endeavour to bring forth works full of fervour, and of high value, that
   it may powerfully augment charity: yet if it bring forth some of lesser
   value, it shall not lose its recompense; for God will be pleased by
   these, that is to say he will love us ever a little more for them. Now
   God never loves a soul more without bestowing also upon her more
   charity, our love towards him being the proper, and special effect, of
   his love towards us.

   The more attentively we regard our image in a looking-glass, the more
   attentively it regards us again; and the more lovingly God casts his
   gracious eyes upon our soul, which is made to his image and likeness,
   our soul in return, with so much the more attention and fervour is
   fixed upon the divine goodness, answering, according to her littleness,
   every increase which this sovereign sweetness makes of his divine love
   towards her. The Council of Trent says thus: "If any say that justice
   received is not preserved, yea that it is not augmented, by good works
   in the sight of God, but that works are only the fruits and signs of
   justification acquired, and not the cause of its increase, let him be
   anathema." Do you see, Theotimus, the justification wrought by charity
   is augmented by good works, and, which is to be noted, by good works
   without exception: for, as S. Bernard says excellently well on another
   subject, nothing is excepted where nothing is distinguished. The
   Council speaks of good works indifferently, and without reservation,
   giving us to understand, that not only the great and fervent, but also
   the little and feeble works cause the increase of holy Charity, but the
   great ones greatly, and the little much less.

   Such is the love which God bears to our souls, such his desire to make
   us increase in the love which we owe to him. The divine sweetness
   renders all things profitable to us, takes all to our advantage, and
   turns all our endeavours, though never so lowly and feeble, to our
   gain.

   In the action of moral virtues little works bring no increase to the
   virtue whence they proceed, yea, if they be very little, they impair
   it: for a great liberality perishes if it occupies itself in bestowing
   things of small value, and of liberality becomes niggardliness. But in
   the actions of those virtues which issue from God's mercy, and
   especially of charity, every work gives increase. Nor is it strange
   that sacred love, as King of virtues, has nothing either great or small
   which is not loveable, since the balm tree, prince of aromatic trees,
   has neither bark nor leaf that is not odoriferous: and what could love
   bring forth that were not worthy of love, or did not tend to love?

     __________________________________________________________________

   [135] Luke xvii. 5.

   [136] 2 Cor. ix. 8.

   [137] Matt. xiii. 12.

   [138] Matt vi. 20.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   HOW A SOUL IN CHARITY MAKES PROGRESS IN IT.

   Let us make use of a parable, Theotimus, seeing that this method was so
   agreeable to the sovereign Master of the love which we are teaching. A
   great and brave King, having espoused a most amiable young princess,
   and having on a certain day led her into a very retired cabinet, there
   to converse with her more at his pleasure, after some discourse saw her
   by a certain sudden accident fall down as dead at his feet. Alas! he
   was extremely disturbed at this, and it well nigh put him also into a
   swoon; for she was dearer to him than his own life. Yet the same love
   that gave him this assault of grief, gave him an equal strength to
   sustain it, and set him into action to remedy, with an incomparable
   promptitude, the evil which had happened to the dear companion of his
   life. Therefore rapidly opening a sideboard which stood by, he takes a
   cordial-water, infinitely precious, and having filled his mouth with
   it, by force he opens the lips and the set teeth of his well-beloved
   princess, then breathing and spurting the precious liquor which he held
   in his mouth, into that of his poor lifeless one who lay in a swoon,
   and pouring what was left in the phial about the nostrils, the temples,
   and the heart, he made her return to herself and to her senses again;
   that done, he helps her up gently, and by virtue of remedies so
   strengthens and revives her, that she begins to stand and walk very
   quietly with him; but in no sort without his help, for he goes
   assisting and sustaining her by her arm, till at length he lays to her
   heart an epithem so precious and of so great virtue, that finding
   herself entirely restored to her wonted health, she walks all alone,
   her dear spouse not now sustaining her so much, but only holding her
   right hand softly between his, and his right arm folded over hers on to
   her bosom. Thus he went on treating her, and fulfilling to her in all
   this four most agreeable offices: for  1. He gave testimony that his
   heart was lovingly careful of her.  2. He continued ever a little
   nursing her.  3. If she had felt any touch of her former faintness he
   would have sustained her.  4. If she had lighted on any rough and
   difficult place in her walking he would have been her support and stay:
   and in accidents, or when she would make a little more haste, he raised
   her and powerfully succoured her. In fine he stayed by her with this
   heartfelt care till night approached, and then he assisted to lay her
   in her royal bed.

   The soul is the spouse of Our Saviour when she is just; and because she
   is never just but when she is in charity, she is also no sooner spouse
   than she is led into the cabinet of those delicious perfumes mentioned
   in the Canticles. Now when the soul which has been thus honoured
   commits sin, she falls as if dead in a spiritual swoon; and this is in
   good truth a most unlooked-for accident: for who would ever think that
   a creature could forsake her Creator and sovereign good for things so
   trifling as the allurements of sin? Truly the heavens are astonished at
   it, and if God were subject to passions he would fall down in a swoon
   at this misfortune, as when he was mortal he died upon the cross for
   our redemption. But seeing it is not now necessary that he should
   employ his love in dying for us, when he sees the soul overthrown by
   sin he commonly runs to her succour, and by an unspeakable mercy, lays
   open the gates of her heart by the stings and remorses of conscience
   which come from the divers lights and apprehensions which he casts into
   our hearts, with salutary movements, by which, as by odorous and vital
   liquors, he makes the soul return to herself, and brings her back to
   good sentiments. And all this, Theotimus, God works in us without our
   action, [139] by his all-amiable Goodness which prevents us with its
   sweetness. For even as our bride, having fainted, would have died in
   her swoon, if the King had not assisted her; so the soul would remain
   lost in her sin if God prevented her not. But if the soul thus excited
   add her consent to the solicitation of grace, seconding the inspiration
   which prevents her, and accepting the required helps provided for her
   by God; he will fortify her, and conduct her through various movements
   of faith, hope and penitence, even till he restore her to her true
   spiritual health, which is no other thing than charity. And while he
   thus makes her walk in the virtues by which he disposes her to this
   holy love, he does not conduct her only, but in such sort sustains her,
   that as she for her part goes as well as she is able so he on his part
   supports and sustains her; and it is hard to say whether she goes or is
   carried; for she is not so carried that she goes not, and yet her going
   is such that if she were not carried she could not go. So that, to
   speak apostolically, she must say; I walk, not I alone, but the grace
   of God with me. [140]

   But the soul being entirely restored to her health by the excellent
   epithem of charity which the Holy Ghost infuses into her heart, she is
   then able to walk and keep herself upon her feet of herself, yet by
   virtue of this health and this sacred epithem of holy love. Wherefore
   though she is able to walk of herself, yet is she to render the glory
   thereof to God, who has bestowed upon her a health so vigorous and
   strong: for whether the Holy Ghost fortify us by the motions which he
   enables our heart to make, or sustain us by the charity which he
   infuses into them, whether he succour us by manner of assistance in
   raising and carrying us, or strengthen our hearts by pouring into them
   fortifying and quickening love, we always live, walk, and work, in him
   and by him.

   And although by means of charity poured into our hearts, we are able to
   walk in the presence of God, and make progress in the way of salvation,
   yet still it is the goodness of God which ever helps the soul to whom
   he has given his love, continually holding her with his holy hand; for
   so  1: He doth better make appear the sweetness of his love towards
   her.  2. He ever animates her more and more.  3. He supports her
   against depraved inclinations and evil habits contracted by former
   sins.  4. And finally, he supports her and defends her against
   temptations.

   Do we not often see, Theotimus, that sound and robust men must be
   provoked to employ their strength and power well; and, as one would
   say, must be drawn by the hand to the work? So God having given us his
   charity, and by it the force and the means to gain ground in the way of
   perfection, his love does not permit him to let us walk thus alone, but
   makes him put himself upon the way with us, urges him to urge us, and
   solicits his heart to solicit and drive forward ours to make good use
   of the charity which he has given us, repeating often, by means of his
   inspirations, S. Paul's admonitions: See that you receive not the grace
   of God in vain. [141] Whilst we have time, let us work good to all men.
   [142] So run that you may obtain. [143] So that we are often to think
   that he repeats in our ears the words which he used to the good father
   Abraham: Walk before me and be perfect. [144]

   But principally the special assistance of God to the soul endowed with
   charity is required in sublime and extraordinary enterprises; for
   though charity, however weak it be, gives us enough inclination, and,
   as I think, enough power, to do the works necessary for salvation, yet,
   to aspire to and undertake excellent and extraordinary actions, our
   hearts stand in need of being pushed and raised by the hand and motion
   of this great heavenly lover; as the princess in our parable, although
   restored to health, could not ascend nor go fast, unless her dear
   spouse raised and strongly supported her. Thus S. Antony and S. Simeon
   Stylites were in the grace of God and charity when they designed so
   exalted a life; as also the B. Mother (S.) Teresa when she made her
   particular vow of obedience, S. Francis and S. Louis, when they
   undertook their journey beyond-seas for the advancement of God's glory,
   the Blessed Francis Xavier, when he consecrated his life to the
   conversion of the Indians, S. Charles, in exposing himself to serve the
   plague-stricken, S. Paulinus, when he sold himself to redeem the poor
   widow's child; yet still never would they have struck such mighty and
   generous blows, unless God, to that charity which they had in their
   hearts, had added special inspirations, invitations, lights and forces,
   whereby he animated and pushed them forward to these extraordinary
   exploits of spiritual valour.

   Do you not mark the young man of the gospel, whom Our Saviour loved,
   and who, consequently, was in charity? Certainly, he never dreamed of
   selling all he had to give it to the poor, and following Our Saviour:
   nay though Our Saviour had given him such an inspiration, yet had he
   not the courage to put it into execution. For these great works,
   Theotimus, we need not only to be inspired, but also to be fortified,
   in order to effect what the inspiration inclines us to. As again in the
   fierce assaults of extraordinary temptations, a special and particular
   presence of heavenly succour is absolutely necessary. For this cause
   holy church makes us so frequently cry out: "Excite our hearts O Lord:"
   "Prevent our actions by thy holy inspirations and further them with thy
   continual help:" "O Lord, make haste to help us:" and the like, in
   order by such prayers to obtain grace to be able to effect excellent
   and extraordinary works, and more frequently and fervently to do
   ordinary ones; as also more ardently to resist small temptations, and
   boldly to combat the greatest. S. Antony was assailed by a hideous
   legion of devils, and having long sustained their attacks, not without
   incredible pain and torment, at length saw the roof of his cell burst
   open, and a heavenly ray enter the breach, which made the black and
   darksome troop of his enemies vanish in a moment, and delivered him
   from all the pain of the wounds received in that battle; whence he
   perceived God's particular presence, and fetching a profound sigh
   towards the vision--"where wast thou, O good Jesus," said he, "where
   wast thou? Why wast thou not here from the beginning to have relieved
   my pain? It was answered him from above Antony, I was here: but I
   awaited the event of thy combat: and since thou didst behave thyself
   bravely and valiantly, I will be thy continual aid." But in what did
   the valour and courage of this brave spiritual combatant consist? He
   himself declared it another time when, being set upon by a devil who
   acknowledged himself to be the spirit of fornication, this glorious
   saint after many words worthy of his great courage began to sing the
   7th verse of the 117th Psalm: The Lord is my helper: and I will look
   over my enemies.

   And Our Saviour revealed to S. Catharine of Sienna, that he was in the
   midst of her heart in a cruel temptation she had, as a captain in the
   midst of a fort to hold it; and that without his succour she would have
   been lost in that battle. It is the same in all the great assaults
   which our enemy makes against us: and we may well say with Jacob that
   it is the angel that delivereth us from all evil, [145] and may sing
   with the great King David: The Lord ruleth me: and I shall want
   nothing. He hath set me in a place of pasture. He hath brought me up,
   on the water of refreshment: he hath converted my soul. So that we
   ought often to repeat this exclamation and prayer: And thy mercy will
   follow me all the days of my life. [146]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [139] In nobis sine nobis (S. Aug.)

   [140] 1 Cor. xv. 10.

   [141] 2 Cor. vi. 1.

   [142] Gal. vi. 10.

   [143] 1 Cor. ix. 24.

   [144] Gen. xvii. 1.

   [145] Gen. xlviii. 16.

   [146] Ps. xxii.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   OF HOLY PERSEVERANCE IN SACRED LOVE.

   Even as a tender mother, leading with her her little babe, assists and
   supports him as need requires, letting him now and then venture a step
   by himself in less dangerous and very smooth places, now taking him by
   the hand and steadying him, now taking him up in her arms and bearing
   him, so Our Lord has a continual care to conduct his children, that is
   such as are in charity; making them walk before him, reaching them his
   hand in difficulties, and bearing them himself in such travails, as he
   sees otherwise insupportable unto them. This he declared by Isaias
   saying: I am the Lord thy God, who take thee by the hand, and say to
   thee: fear not, I have helped thee. [147] So that with a good heart we
   must have a firm confidence in God, and his assistance, for if we fail
   not to second his grace, he will accomplish in us the good work of our
   salvation, which he also began working in us both to will and to
   accomplish, [148] as the holy Council of Trent assures us.

   In this conduct which the heavenly sweetness makes of our souls, from
   their entry into charity until their final perfection, which is not
   finished but in the hour of death, consists the great gift of
   perseverance, to which our Saviour attaches the greatest gift of
   eternal glory, according to his saying: He that shall persevere unto
   the end, he shall be saved: [149] for this gift is no other thing than
   the combination and sequence of the various helps, solaces and
   succours, whereby we continue in the love of God to the end: as the
   education, bringing up and supporting of a child is no other thing,
   than the many cares, aids, succours, and other offices necessary to a
   child, exercised and continued towards him till he grow to years in
   which he no longer needs them.

   But the continuance of succours and helps is not equal in all those
   that persevere. In some it is short; as in such as were converted a
   little before their death: so it happened to the Good Thief; so to that
   officers who seeing the constancy of S. James made forthwith profession
   of faith, and became a companion of the martyrdom of this great
   Apostle; so to the blessed gaoler who guarded the forty martyrs at
   Sebaste, who seeing one of them lose courage, and forsake the crown of
   martyrdom, put himself in his place and became Christian, martyr and
   glorious all at once; so to the notary of whom mention is made in the
   life of S. Antony of Padua, who having all his life been a false
   villain yet died a martyr: and so it happened to a thousand others of
   whom we have seen and read that they died well, after an ill-spent
   life. As for these, they stand not in need of a great variety of
   succours, but unless some great temptation cross their way, they can
   make this short perseverance solely by the charity given them, and by
   the aids by which they were converted. For they arrive at the port
   without voyaging, and finish their pilgrimage in a single leap, which
   the powerful mercy of God makes them take so opportunely that their
   enemies see them triumph before seeing them fight: so that their
   conversion and perseverance are almost the same thing. And if we would
   speak with exact propriety, the grace which they received of God
   whereby they attained as soon the issue, as the beginning of their
   course, cannot well be termed perseverance, though all the same,
   because actually it holds the place of perseverance in giving
   salvation, we comprehend it under the name of perseverance. In others,
   on the contrary, perseverance is longer, as in S. Anne the prophetess,
   in S. John the Evangelist, S. Paul the first hermit, S. Hilarion, S.
   Romuald, S. Francis of Paula;--and they stood in need of a thousand
   sorts of different assistances, according to the variety of the
   adventures of their pilgrimage and the length of it.

   But in any case, perseverance is the most desirable gift we can hope
   for in this life, and the one which, as the Council of Trent says, we
   cannot have but from the hand of God, who alone can assure him that
   stands, and help him up that falls: wherefore we must incessantly
   demand it, making use of the means which Our Saviour has taught us to
   the obtaining of it; prayer, fasting, alms-deeds, frequenting the
   sacraments, intercourse with the good, the hearing and reading of holy
   words.

   Now since the gift of prayer and devotion is liberally granted to all
   those who sincerely will to consent to divine inspirations, it is
   consequently in our power to persevere. Not of course that I mean to
   say that our perseverance has its origin from our power, for on the
   contrary I know it springs from God's mercy, whose most precious gift
   it is, but I mean that though it does not come from our power, yet it
   comes within our power, by means of our will, which we cannot deny to
   be in our power: for though God's grace is necessary for us, to will to
   persevere, yet is this will in our power, because heavenly grace is
   never wanting to our will, and our will is not wanting to our power.
   And indeed according to the great S. Bernard's opinion, we may all
   truly say with the Apostle that: Neither death, nor life, nor Angels,
   nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
   nor might, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able
   to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus Our Lord.
   [150] Yes, indeed, for no creature can take us away by force from this
   holy love; we only can forsake and abandon it by our own will, except
   for which there is nothing to be feared in this matter.

   So, Theotimus, following the advice of the holy Council, we ought to
   place our whole hope in God, who will perfect the work of our salvation
   which he has begun in us, if we be not wanting to his grace: for we are
   not to think that he who said to the paralytic: Go, and do not will to
   sin again: [151] gave him not also power to avoid that willing which he
   forbade him: and surely he would never exhort the faithful to
   persevere, if he were not ready to furnish them with the power. Be thou
   faithful until death, said he to the bishop of Smyrna, and I will give
   thee the crown of life. [152] Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, do
   manfully, and be strengthened. Let all your actions be done in charity.
   [153] So run that you may obtain. [154] We must often then with the
   great King demand of God the heavenly gift of perseverance, and hope
   that he will grant it us. Cast me not off in the time of old age; when
   my strength shall fail, do not thou forsake me. [155]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [147] Is. xli. 13.

   [148] Phil. ii. 13.

   [149] Matt. x. 22.

   [150] Rom. viii. 38-9

   [151] John v. 14.

   [152] Apoc. ii. 10.

   [153] 1 Cor. xvi. 13.

   [154] 1 Cor. ix. 24.

   [155] Ps. lxx. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   THAT THE HAPPINESS OF DYING IN HEAVENLY CHARITY IS A SPECIAL GIFT OF
   GOD.

   In fine, the heavenly King having brought the soul which he loves to
   the end of this life, he assists her also in her blessed departure, by
   which he draws her to the marriage-bed of eternal glory, which is the
   delicious fruit of holy perseverance. And then, dear Theotimus, this
   soul, wholly ravished with the love of her well-beloved, putting before
   her eyes the multitude of favours and succours wherewith she was
   prevented and helped while she was yet in her pilgrimage, incessantly
   kisses this sweet helping hand, which conducted, drew and supported her
   in the way; and confesses, that it is of this divine Saviour that she
   holds her felicity, seeing he has done for her all that the patriarch
   Jacob wished for his journey, when he had seen the ladder to heaven. O
   Lord, she then says, thou wast with me, and didst guide me in the way
   by which I came. Thou didst feed me with the bread of thy sacraments,
   thou didst clothe me with the wedding garment of charity, thou hast
   happily conducted me to this mansion of glory, which is thy house, O my
   eternal Father. Oh! what remains, O Lord, save that I should protest
   that thou art my God for ever and ever! Amen.

   Thou hast held me by my right hand; and by thy will thou hast conducted
   me, and with thy glory thou hast received me. [156] Such then is the
   order of our journey to eternal life, for the accomplishment of which
   the divine providence ordained from all eternity the number,
   distinction and succession of graces necessary to it, with their
   dependence on one another.

   He willed, first, with a true will, that even after the sin of Adam all
   men should be saved, but upon terms and by means agreeable to the
   condition of their nature, which is endowed with free-will; that is to
   say he willed the salvation of all those who would contribute their
   consent, to the graces and favours which he would prepare, offer and
   distribute to this end.

   Now, amongst these favours, his will was that vocation should be the
   first, and that it should be so accommodated to our liberty that we
   might at our pleasure accept or reject it: and such as he saw would
   receive it, he would furnish with the sacred motions of penitence, and
   to those who would second these motions he determined to give charity,
   those again who were in charity, he purposed to supply with the helps
   necessary to persevere, and to such as should make use of these divine
   helps he resolved to impart final perseverance, and the glorious
   felicity of his eternal love.

   And thus we may give account of the order which is found in the effects
   of that Providence which regards our salvation, descending from the
   first to the last, that is from the fruit, which is glory, to the root
   of this fair tree, which is Our Saviour's redemption. For the divine
   goodness gives glory after merits, merits after charity, charity after
   penitence, penitence after obedience to vocation, obedience to vocation
   after vocation itself, vocation after Our Saviour's redemption, on
   which rests all this mystical ladder of the great Jacob, as well at its
   heavenly end, since it rests in the bosom of the eternal Father, in
   which he receives and glorifies the elect, as also at its earthly end,
   since it is planted upon the bosom and pierced side of Our Saviour, who
   for this cause died upon Mount Calvary.

   And that this order of the effects of Providence was thus ordained,
   with the same dependence which they have on one another in the eternal
   will of God, holy Church, in the preface of one of her solemn prayers,
   witnesses in these words: "O eternal and Almighty God, who art Lord of
   the living and the dead, and art merciful to all those who thou
   foreknowest will be thine by faith and good works:" as though she were
   declaring that glory, which is the crown and the fruit of God's mercy
   towards men, has only been ordained for those, of whom the divine
   wisdom has foreseen that in the future, obeying the vocation, they will
   attain the living faith which works by charity.

   Finally, all these effects have an absolute dependence on Our Saviour's
   redemption, who merited them for us in rigour of justice by the loving
   obedience which he exercised even till death and the death of the
   cross, which is the root of all the graces which we receive; we who are
   the spiritual grafts engrafted on his stock. If being engrafted we
   remain in him, we shall certainly bear, by the life of grace which he
   will communicate unto us, the fruit of glory prepared for us. But if we
   prove broken sprigs and grafts upon this tree, that is, if by
   resistance we interrupt the progress and break the connection of the
   effects of his clemency, it will not be strange, if in the end we be
   wholly cut off, and be thrown into eternal fires as fruitless branches.

   God, doubtless, prepared heaven for those only who he foresaw would be
   his. Let us be his then, Theotimus, by faith and works, and he will be
   ours by glory. Now it is in our power to be his: for though it be a
   gift of God to be God's, yet is it a gift which God denies no one, but
   offers to all, to give it to such as freely consent to receive it.

   But mark, I pray you, Theotimus, how ardently God desires we should be
   his, since to this end he has made himself entirely ours; bestowing
   upon us his death and his life; his life, to exempt us from eternal
   death, his death, to possess us of eternal life. Let us remain
   therefore in peace and serve God, to be his in this mortal life, and
   still more his in the eternal.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [156] Ps. lxxii. 24.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   THAT WE CANNOT ATTAIN TO PERFECT UNION WITH GOD IN THIS MORTAL LIFE.

   All the rivers flow incessantly, and, as the wise man says: Unto the
   place from whence they come they return to flow again. [157] The sea
   which is the place whence they spring, is also the place of their final
   repose; all their motion tends no farther than to unite themselves to
   their fountain. "O God," says S. Augustine, "thou hast created my heart
   for thyself, and it can never repose but in thee." For what have I in
   heaven, and besides thee what do I desire upon earth? Thou art the God
   of my heart, and the God that is my portion for ever. [158] Still the
   union which our heart aspires to cannot attain to its perfection in
   this mortal life; we can commence our loves in this, but we can
   consummate them only in the other.

   The heavenly Spouse makes a delicate expression of this. I found him
   whom my soul loveth, says she, I held him, and I will not let him go,
   till I bring him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her
   that bore me. [159] She finds him then, this well-beloved, for he makes
   her feel his presence by a thousand consolations; she holds him, for
   these feelings cause in her strong affections, by which she clasps and
   embraces him, protesting that she will never let him go,--O no! for
   these affections turn into eternal resolutions; yet she cannot consider
   that she kisses him with the nuptial kiss till she meet with him in her
   mother's house, which is the heavenly Jerusalem, as S. Paul says. But
   see, Theotimus, how this spouse thinks of nothing less than of keeping
   her beloved at her mercy as a slave of love; whence she imagines to
   herself that it is hers to lead him at her will, and to introduce him
   into her mother's happy abode; though in reality it is she who must be
   conducted thither by him, as was Rebecca into Sara's chamber by her
   dear Isaac. The spirit urged by amorous passion always gives itself a
   little advantage over what it loves; and the spouse himself confesses:
   Thou hast wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse, thou hast wounded my
   heart with one of thy eyes, and with one hair of thy neck: [160]
   acknowledging himself her prisoner by love.

   This perfect conjunction then of the soul with God, shall only be in
   heaven, where as the Apocalypse says, the Lamb's marriage feast shall
   be made. In this mortal life the soul is truly espoused and betrothed
   to the immaculate Lamb, but not as yet married to him: the troth is
   plighted, and promise given, but the execution of the marriage is
   deferred: so that we have always time, though never reason, to withdraw
   from it; our faithful spouse never abandons us unless we oblige him to
   it by our disloyalty and unfaithfulness. But in heaven the marriage of
   this divine union being celebrated, the bond which ties our hearts to
   their sovereign principle shall be eternally indissoluble.

   It is true, Theotimus, that while we await this great kiss of
   indissoluble union which we shall receive from the spouse there above
   in glory, he gives us some kisses by a thousand feelings of his
   delightful presence: for unless the soul were kissed she would not be
   drawn, nor would she run in the odour of the beloved's perfumes.
   Whence, according to the original Hebrew text and the Seventy
   interpreters, she desires many kisses. Let him kiss me, says she, with
   the kisses of his mouth. But because these little kisses of this
   present life all refer to the eternal kiss of the life to come, the
   sacred Vulgate edition has holily reduced the kisses of grace to that
   of glory, expressing the desires of the spouse in this manner: Let him
   kiss me with the kiss of his mouth, [161] as though she said: of all
   the kisses, of all the favours that the friend of my heart, or the
   heart of my soul has provided for me, ah! I only breathe after and
   aspire to this great and solemn marriage-kiss which remains for ever,
   and in comparison of which the other kisses deserve not the name of
   kisses, being rather signs of the future union between my beloved and
   me than union itself.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [157] Eccles. i. 7.

   [158] Ps. lxxii. 25-6.

   [159] Cant. iii. 4.

   [160] Ibid. iv. 9.

   [161] Cant. i. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   THAT THE CHARITY OF SAINTS IN THIS MORTAL LIFE EQUALS, YEA SOMETIMES
   SURPASSES, THAT OF THE BLESSED.

   When after the labours and dangers of this mortal life, good souls
   arrive at the port of the eternal, they ascend to the highest and
   utmost degree of love to which they can attain; and this final increase
   being bestowed upon them in recompense of their merits, it is
   distributed to them, not only in good measure, but in a measure which
   is pressed down and shaken together and running over, [162] as Our
   Saviour says; so that the love which is given for reward is greater in
   every one than that which was given for meriting.

   Now, not only shall each one in particular have a greater love in
   heaven than ever he had on earth, but the exercise of the least charity
   in heaven, shall be much more happy and excellent, generally speaking,
   than that of the greatest which is, or has been, or shall be, in this
   failing life: for there above, all the saints incessantly, without any
   intermission, exercise love; while here below God's greatest servants,
   drawn away and tyrannized over by the necessities of this dying life,
   are forced to suffer a thousand and a thousand distractions, which
   often take them off the practice of holy love.

   In heaven, Theotimus, the loving attention of the blessed is firm,
   constant, inviolable, and cannot perish or decrease; their intention is
   pure and freed from all mixture of any inferior intention: in short,
   this felicity of seeing God clearly and loving him unchangeably is
   incomparable. And who would ever equal the pleasure, if there be any,
   of living amidst the perils, the continual tempests, the perpetual
   agitations and viscissitudes which have to be gone through on sea, with
   the contentment there is of being in a royal palace, where all things
   are at every wish, yea where delights incomparably surpass every wish?

   There is then more content, sweetness and perfection in the exercise of
   sacred love amongst the inhabitants of heaven, than amongst the
   pilgrims of this miserable earth. Yet still there have been some so
   happy in their pilgrimage that their charity has been greater than that
   of many saints already enjoying the eternal fatherland: for certainly
   it were strange if the charity of the great S. John, of the Apostles
   and Apostolic men, were not greater, even while they were detained here
   below, than that of little children, who, dying simply with the grace
   of baptism, enjoy immortal glory.

   It is not usual for shepherds to be more valiant than soldiers; and yet
   David, when a little shepherd, coming to the army of Israel, while he
   found every one more expert in the use of arms than himself, yet he was
   more valiant than all. So it is not an ordinary thing for mortals to
   have more charity than the immortals, and yet there have been some
   mortals, inferior to the immortals in the exercise of love, who,
   notwithstanding, have surpassed them in charity and the habit of love.
   And as, when comparing hot iron and a burning lamp, we say the iron has
   more fire and heat, the lamp more flame and light; so if we parallel a
   child in glory with S. John while yet prisoner, or S. Paul yet captive,
   we must say that the child in heaven has more brightness and light in
   the understanding, more flame and exercise of love in the will, but
   that S. John or S. Paul had even on earth more fire of charity, and
   heat of love.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [162] Luke vi. 38.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   OF THE INCOMPARABLE LOVE WHICH THE MOTHER of GOD, OUR BLESSED LADY,
   HAD.

   But always and everywhere, when I make comparisons, I intend not to
   speak of the most holy virgin-mother, Our Blessed Lady. O my God--no
   indeed! For she is the daughter of incomparable dilection, the one only
   dove, the all-perfect spouse. Of this heavenly Queen, from my heart I
   pronounce this thought, amorous but true, that at least towards the end
   of her mortal days, her charity surpassed that of the Seraphim, for
   many daughters have gathered together riches: thou hast surpassed them
   all. [163] The Saints and Angels are but compared to stars, and the
   first of them to the fairest of the stars: but she is fair as the moon,
   as easy to be chosen and discerned from all the Saints as the sun from
   the stars. And going on further I think again that as the charity of
   this Mother of love excels in perfection that of all the Saints in
   heaven, so did she exercise it more perfectly, I say even in this
   mortal life. She never sinned venially, as the church considers; she
   had then no change nor delay in the way of love, but by a perpetual
   advancement ascended from love to love. She never felt any
   contradiction from the sensual appetite, and therefore her love, as a
   true Solomon, reigned peaceably in her soul and made all its acts at
   its pleasure. The virginity of her heart and body was more worthy and
   honourable than that of the Angels. So that her spirit, not divided or
   separated, as S. Paul says, was solicitous for the things that belong
   to the Lord how it might please God. [164] And, in fine, maternal love,
   the most pressing, the most active and the most ardent of all, what
   must it not have worked in the heart of such a Mother and for the heart
   of such a Son?

   Ah! do not say, I pray you, that this virgin was subject to sleep; no,
   say not this to me, Theotimus: for do you not see that her sleep is a
   sleep of love? So that even her spouse wishes that she should sleep as
   long as she pleases. Ah! take heed, I adjure you, says he, that you
   stir not up nor make the beloved to awake till she please. [165] No,
   Theotimus, this heavenly Queen never slept but with love, since she
   never gave repose to her precious body, but to reinvigorate it, the
   better afterwards to serve her God, which is certainly a most excellent
   act of charity. For, as the great S. Augustine says, charity obliges us
   to love our bodies properly, insomuch as they are necessary to good
   works, as they make a part of our person, and as they shall be sharers
   in our eternal felicity. In good truth, a Christian is to love his body
   as a living image of Our Saviour incarnate, as having issued from the
   same stock, and consequently belonging to him in parentage and
   consanguinity; especially after we have renewed the alliance, by the
   real reception of the divine body of Our Redeemer, in the most adorable
   sacrament of the Eucharist, and when by Baptism, Confirmation and other
   Sacraments we have dedicated and consecrated ourselves to the sovereign
   goodness.

   But as to the Blessed Virgin,--O God, with what devotion must she have
   loved her virginal body! Not only because it was a sweet, humble, pure
   body, obedient to divine love, and wholly embalmed with a thousand
   sweetnesses, but also because it was the living source of Our
   Saviour's, and belonged so strictly to him, by an incomparable
   appurtenance. For which cause when she placed her angelic body in the
   repose of sleep: Repose then now, would she say, O Tabernacle of
   Alliance, Ark of Sanctity, Throne of the Divinity, ease thyself a
   little of thy weariness, and repair thy forces, by this sweet
   tranquillity.

   Besides, dear Theotimus, do you not know that bad dreams, voluntarily
   procured by the depraved thoughts of the day, are in some sort sins,
   inasmuch as they are consequences and execution of the malice
   preceding? Even so the dreams which proceed from the holy affections of
   our waking time, are reputed virtuous and holy. O God! Theotimus, what
   a consolation it is to hear S. Chrysostom recounting on a certain day
   to his people the vehemence of his love towards them. "The necessity of
   sleep," said he, "pressing our eyelids, the tyranny of our love towards
   you excites the eyes of our mind: and many a time while I sleep
   methinks I speak unto you, for the soul is wont to see in a dream by
   imagination what she thinks in the daytime. Thus while we see you not
   with the eyes of the flesh, we see you with the eyes of charity." O
   sweet Jesus! what dreams must thy most holy Mother have had when she
   slept, while her heart watched? Did she not dream that she had thee yet
   in her womb, or hanging at her sacred breasts and sweetly pressing
   those virginal lilies? Ah! what sweetness was in this soul. Perhaps she
   often dreamed that as Our Saviour had formerly slept in her bosom, as a
   tender lambkin upon the soft flank of its mother, so she slept in his
   pierced side, as a white dove in the cave of an assured rock: so that
   her sleep was wholly like to an ecstasy as regards the spirit, though
   as regards the body it was a sweet and grateful unwearying and rest.
   But if ever she dreamed, as did the ancient Joseph, of her future
   greatness,--when in heaven she should be clothed with the sun, crowned
   with stars and having the moon under her feet, [166] that is, wholly
   environed with her Son's glory, crowned with that of the Saints, and
   having the universe under her--or if ever, like Jacob, she saw the
   progress and fruit of the redemption made by her Son, for the love of
   the angels and of men;--Theotimus, who could ever imagine the immensity
   of so great delights? O what conferences with her dear child! What
   delights on every side!

   But mark, I pray you, that I neither say nor mean to say that this
   privileged soul of the Mother of God was deprived of the use of reason
   in her sleep. Many are of opinion that Solomon in that beautiful dream,
   though really a dream, in which he demanded and received the gift of
   his incomparable wisdom, had the true use of his free-will, on account
   of the judicious eloquence of the discourse he made, of his choice full
   of discretion, and of the most excellent prayer which he used, the
   whole without any mixture of inconsistency or distraction of mind. But
   how much more probability is there then that the mother of the true
   Solomon had the use of reason in her sleep, that is to say, as Solomon
   himself makes her say, that her heart watched while she slept? Surely
   it was a far greater marvel that S. John had the exercise of reason in
   his mother's womb, and why then should we deny a less to her for whom,
   and to whom, God did more favours, than either he did or ever will do
   for all creatures besides?

   To conclude, as the precious stone, asbestos, does by a peerless
   propriety preserve for ever the fire which it has conceived, so the
   Virgin Mother's heart remained perpetually inflamed with the holy love
   which she received of her Son: yet with this difference, that the fire
   of the asbestos, as it cannot be extinguished, so it cannot be
   augmented, but the Virgin's sacred flames, since they could neither
   perish, diminish nor remain in the same state, never ceased to take
   incredible increase, even as far as heaven the place of their origin:
   so true it is that this Mother is the Mother of fair love, that is, as
   the most amiable, so the most loving, and as the most loving, so the
   most beloved Mother of this only Son; who again is the most amiable,
   most loving, and most beloved Son of this only Mother.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [163] Prov. xxxi. 29.

   [164] 1 Cor. vii. 32.

   [165] Cant. ii. 7.

   [166] Gen. xxxvii.; Apoc. xii. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   A PREPARATION FOR THE DISCOURSE ON THE UNION OF THE BLESSED WITH GOD.

   The triumphant love which the blessed in heaven exercise, consists in
   the final, invariable and eternal union of the soul with its God. But
   this union--what is it?

   By how much more agreeable and excellent are the objects our senses
   meet with, so much more ardently and greedily they give themselves to
   the fruition of them. By how much more fair, delightful to the view,
   and duly set in light they are, so much the more eagerly and
   attentively does the eye regard them: and by how much more sweet and
   pleasant voices or music are, so much the more is the attention of the
   ear drawn to them. So that every object exercises a powerful but
   grateful violence upon the sense to which it belongs, a violence more
   or less strong as the excellence is greater or less; provided always
   that it be proportionable to the capacity of the sense which desires to
   enjoy it; for the eye which finds so much pleasure in light cannot,
   however, bear an extreme light, nor fix itself upon the sun, and be
   music never so sweet, if loud and too near, it importunes and offends
   our ears. Truth is the object of our understanding, which consequently
   has all its content in discovering and knowing the truth of things; and
   according as truths are more excellent, so the understanding applies
   itself with more delight and attention to the consideration of them.
   How great was the pleasure, think you, Theotimus, of those ancient
   philosophers who had such an excellent knowledge of so many beautiful
   truths of Nature? Verily they reputed all pleasures as nothing in
   comparison with their well-beloved philosophy, for which some of them
   quitted honours, others great riches, others their country; and there
   was such a one as deliberately plucked out his eyes, depriving himself
   for ever of the enjoyment of the fair and agreeable corporal light,
   that he might with more liberty apply himself to consider the truth of
   things by the light of the spirit. This we read of Democritus: so sweet
   is the knowledge of truth! Hence Aristotle has very often said that
   human felicity and beatitude consists in wisdom, which is the knowledge
   of the eminent truths.

   But when our spirit, raised above natural light, begins to see the
   sacred truths of faith, O God! Theotimus, what joy! The soul melts with
   pleasure, hearing the voice of her heavenly spouse, whom she finds more
   sweet and delicious then the honey of all human sciences.

   God has imprinted upon all created things his traces, trail, or
   footsteps, so that the knowledge we have of his divine Majesty by
   creatures seems no other thing than the sight of the feet of God, while
   in comparison of this, faith is a view of the very face of the divine
   Majesty. This we do not yet see in the clear day of glory, but as it
   were in the breaking of day; as it happened to Jacob near to the ford
   of Jaboc; for though he saw not the angel with whom he wrestled, save
   in the weak light of daybreak, yet this was enough to make him cry out,
   ravished with delight: I have seen God face to face, and my soul has
   been saved. [167] O! how delightful is the holy light of faith, by
   which we know, with an unequalled certitude, not only the history of
   the beginning of creatures, and their true use, but even that of the
   eternal birth of the great and sovereign divine Word, for whom and by
   whom all has been made, and who with the Father and the Holy Ghost is
   one only God, most singular, most adorable, and blessed for ever and
   ever! Amen. Ah! says S. Jerome to his Paulinus: "The learned Plato
   never knew this, the eloquent Demosthenes was ignorant of it." How
   sweet are thy words, O Lord, to my palate, said that great king, more
   than honey to my mouth! [168] Was not our burning within us, whilst he
   spoke in the way? [169] said those happy pilgrims of Emmaus, speaking
   of the flames of love with which they were touched by the word of
   faith. But if divine truths be so sweet, when proposed in the obscure
   light of faith, O God, what shall they be when we shall contemplate
   them in the light of the noonday of glory!

   The Queen of Saba, who at the greatness of Solomon's renown had left
   all to go and see him, having arrived in his presence, and having heard
   the wonders of the wisdom which he poured out in his speeches, as one
   astonished and lost in admiration, cried out that what she had learnt
   by hearsay of this heavenly wisdom was not half the knowledge which
   sight and experience gave her.

   Ah! how beautiful and dear are the truths which faith discovers unto us
   by hearing! But when having arrived in the heavenly Jerusalem, we shall
   see the great Solomon, the King of Glory, seated upon the thrown of his
   wisdom, manifesting by an incomprehensible brightness the wonders and
   eternal secrets of his sovereign truth, with such light that our
   understanding will actually see what it had believed here below--Ah!
   then, dearest Theotimus, what raptures! what ecstasies! what
   admiration! what love! what sweetness! No, never (shall we say in this
   excess of sweetness) never could we have conceived that we should see
   truths so delightsome. We believed indeed all the glorious things that
   were said of thee, O great city of God, but we could not conceive the
   infinite greatness of the abysses of thy delights.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [167] Gen. xxxii. 30.

   [168] Ps. cxviii. 103.

   [169] Luke xxiv. 32.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   THAT THE PRECEDING DESIRE WILL MUCH INCREASE THE UNION OF THE BLESSED
   WITH GOD.

   The desire which precedes enjoyment, sharpens and intensifies the
   feeling of it, and by how much the desire was more urgent and powerful,
   by so much more agreeable and delicious is the possession of the thing
   desired. Oh! my dear Theotimus, what pleasure will man's heart take in
   seeing the face of the Divinity, a face so much desired, yea a face the
   only desire of our souls? Our hearts have a thirst which cannot be
   quenched by the pleasures of this mortal life, whereof the most
   esteemed and highest prized if moderate do not satisfy us, and if
   extreme suffocate us. Yet we desire them always to be extreme, and they
   are never such without being excessive, insupportable, hurtful. We die
   of joy as well as of grief: yea, joy is more active to ruin us than
   grief. Alexander, having swallowed up, in effect or in hope, all this
   lower world, heard some base fellow say, that there were yet many other
   worlds, and like a little child, who will cry if one refuse him an
   apple, this Alexander, whom the world styles the great, more foolish
   notwithstanding than a little child, began bitterly to weep, because
   there was no likelihood that he should conquer the other worlds, not
   having as yet got the entire possession of this. He that did more fully
   enjoy the world than ever any other did, is yet so little satisfied
   with it that he weeps for sorrow that he cannot have the other worlds
   which the foolish persuasion of a wretched babbler made him imagine to
   exist. Tell me, I pray you, Theotimus, does he not show that the thirst
   of his heart cannot be slaked in this life, and that this world is not
   sufficient to quench it? O wonderful yet dear unrest of man's heart!
   Be, be ever, my soul, without any rest or tranquillity on this earth,
   till thou shalt have met with the fresh waters of the immortal life and
   the most holy Divinity, which alone can satisfy thy thirst and quiet
   thy desire.

   Now, Theotimus, imagine to yourself with the Psalmist, that hart which,
   hard set by the hounds, has neither wind nor legs; how greedily he
   plunges himself into the waters which he panted after, and with what
   ardour he rolls into and buries himself in that element. One would
   think he would willingly be dissolved and converted into water, more
   fully to enjoy its coolness. Ah! what a union of our hearts shall there
   be with God there above in heaven, where, after these infinite desires
   of the true good never assuaged in this world, we shall find the living
   and powerful source thereof. Then, truly, as we see a hungry child
   closely fixed to his mother's breast, greedily press this dear fountain
   of most desired sweetness, so that one would think that either it would
   thrust itself into its mother's breast, or else suck and draw all that
   breast into itself; so our soul, panting with an extreme thirst for the
   true good, when she shall find that inexhaustible source in the
   Divinity,--O good God! what a holy and sweet ardour to be united and
   joined to the plentiful breasts of the All-goodness, either to be
   altogether absorbed in it, or to have it come entirely into us!

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   OF THE UNION OF THE BLESSED SPIRITS WITH GOD, IN THE VISION OF THE
   DIVINITY.

   When we look upon anything, though it is present to us, it is not
   itself united to our eyes, but only sends out to them a certain
   representation or picture of itself, which is called its sensible
   species, by means of which we see. So also when we contemplate or
   understand anything, that which we understand is not united to our
   understanding otherwise than by another representation and most
   delicate and spiritual image, which is called intelligible species. But
   further, these species, by how many windings and changes do they get to
   the understanding! They arrive at the exterior senses, thence pass to
   the interior, then to the imagination, then to the active
   understanding, and come at last to the passive understanding, to the
   end that passing through so many strainers and under so many files they
   may be purified, subtilised and perfected, and of sensible become
   intelligible.

   Thus, Theotimus, we see and understand all that we see and understand
   in this mortal life, yea even things of faith; for, as the mirror
   contains not the thing we see in it but only the representation and
   species of it (which representation, stayed by the mirror, produces
   another in the beholding eye), so the word of faith does not contain
   the things which it announces, but only represents them, and this
   representation of divine things which is in the word of faith produces
   another representation of them, which our understanding, helped by
   God's grace, accepts and receives as a representation of holy truth,
   and our will takes delight in it, and embraces it, as an honourable,
   profitable, lovely and excellent truth. Thus the truths signified in
   God's word are by it represented to the understanding as things
   expressed in the mirror are by the mirror represented to the eye:
   whence the great Apostle said that to believe is to see as in a glass.
   [170]

   But in heaven, Theotimus,--Ah! my God, what a favour!--The Divinity
   will unite itself to our understanding without the mediation of any
   species or representation at all, but it will itself apply and join
   itself to our understanding, making itself in such sort present unto
   it, that that inward presence shall be instead of a representation or
   species. O God! what sweetness shall it be for man's understanding to
   be united for ever to its sovereign object, receiving not its
   representation but its presence, not the picture or species, but the
   very essence of its divine truth and majesty. We shall be there as most
   happy children of the divinity, and shall have the honour to be fed
   with the divine substance itself, taken into our soul by the mouth of
   our understanding, and what surpasses all sweetness is, that as mothers
   are not contented with feeding their babes with their milk, which is
   their own substance, if they do not also put the breast into their
   mouth, that these may receive their substance, not in a spoon or other
   instrument, but even in, and by this same substance (so that this
   maternal substance serves as well for food, as for a conduit to convey
   it to the dear little suckling);--so God our Father is not contented to
   make us receive his proper substance in our understanding, that is, to
   make us see his divinity, but by an abyss of his sweetness, wills
   himself to apply his substance to our soul, to the end that we may no
   longer understand it by species or representation but in itself and by
   itself; so that his fatherly and eternal substance is both species and
   object to our understanding. Then these divine promises shall be
   fulfilled in an excellent manner: I will lead her into the wilderness,
   and I will speak to her heart, [171] and give her suck. Rejoice with
   Jerusalem and be glad with her. That you may suck and be filled with
   the breasts of her consolations, that you may milk out, and flow with
   delights from the abundance of her glory: you shall be carried at the
   breasts, and upon the knees they shall caress you. [172]

   Infinite bliss, Theotimus, and one which has not been promised only,
   but of which we have a pledge in the Blessed Sacrament, that perpetual
   feast of Divine Grace. For in it we receive the blood of Our Saviour in
   his flesh, and his flesh in his blood; his blood being applied unto us
   by means of his flesh, his substance by his substance to our very
   corporal mouth; that we may know that so he will apply unto us his
   divine essence in the eternal feast of his glory. True it is, this
   favour is done unto us here really but covertly, under Sacramental
   species and appearances, whereas in heaven, the Divinity will give
   himself openly, and we shall see him face to face as he is.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [170] I Cor. xiii. 12.

   [171] Osee. ii. 14.

   [172] Is. lxvi. 10, 11, 12.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   OF THE ETERNAL UNION OF THE BLESSED SPIRITS WITH GOD, IN THE VISION OF
   THE ETERNAL BIRTH OF THE SON OF GOD.

   O holy and Divine Spirit, eternal Love of the Father and the Son, be
   propitious to mine infancy. Our understanding then shall see God,
   Theotimus; yes, it shall see God Himself face to face, contemplating
   with a view of true and real presence, the divine essence Itself, and
   in It, the infinite beauties thereof, all-power, all-goodness,
   all-wisdom, all-justice, and the rest of this abyss of perfections.

   It shall see clearly then, shall this understanding, the infinite
   knowledge which God the Father had from all eternity of His own beauty,
   for the expression of which in Himself, He pronounced and said
   eternally the Word, the Verbum, or the most singular and most infinite
   speech and diction, which, comprising and representing all the
   perfection of the Father, can be but one same God, entirely one with
   Him, without division or separation. We shall thus then see that
   eternal and admirable generation of the Divine Word and Son, by which
   He was eternally born to the image and likeness of the Father, a lively
   and natural image and likeness, not representing any accidents or
   external thing; since in God all is substance, nor can there be any
   accident, all is interior, nor can there be any exterior; but an image
   representing the proper substance of the Father so perfectly, so
   naturally, so essentially and substantially, that therefore it can be
   no other thing than the same God with Him, without distinction or
   difference at all either in essence or substance, and with only the
   distinction of Persons. For how could this Divine Son be the true,
   truly perfect and truly natural image, resemblance and figure of the
   infinite beauty and substance of the Father, if this image did not
   represent absolutely to the life and according to nature, the infinite
   perfections of the Father? And how could it infinitely represent
   infinite perfections if it were not itself infinitely perfect? And how
   could it be infinitely perfect if it were not God, and how could it be
   God if it were not one same God with the Father?

   This Son then, the infinite image and figure of His infinite Father, is
   with His Father one sole, most unique, and infinite God, there being no
   difference of substance between Them, but only the distinction of
   persons. This distinction of persons, as it is certainly required, so
   also it is absolutely sufficient, to effect that the Father pronounces,
   and the Son is the Word pronounced; that the Father speaks, and the Son
   is the Word, or the diction; that the Father expresses, and the Son is
   the image, likeness or figure expressed, and, in short, that the Father
   is Father, and the Son, Son--two distinct persons, but one only Essence
   or Divinity; so that God Who is sole is not solitary, for He is sole in
   His most singular and simple Deity, yet is not solitary, because He is
   Father and Son in two persons. O Theotimus, what joy, what jubilee to
   celebrate this eternal birth, kept in the brightness of the Saints,
   [173] to celebrate it in seeing it, and to see it in celebrating it!

   The most sweet S. Bernard, as yet a little boy at Chastillon-sur-Seine,
   was waiting in Church on Christmas night for the divine office to
   begin, and whilst waiting the poor child fell into a light slumber,
   during which (O God what sweetness!) he saw in spirit, yet in a vision
   very distinct and clear, how the Son of God, having espoused human
   nature, and becoming a little child in His Mother's most pure womb, was
   with a humble sweetness mingled with a celestial majesty, virginally
   born of her:--As a bridegroom coming out of his bride-chamber: [174]
   --a vision, Theotimus, which so replenished the loving heart of the
   little Bernard with gladness, jubilation and spiritual delights, that
   he had all his life an extreme sense of it, and therefore, though
   afterwards as a sacred bee he ever culled out of all the divine
   mysteries the honey of a thousand sweet and heavenly consolations, yet
   had he a more particular sweetness in the solemnity of the Nativity,
   and spoke with a singular relish of this birth of his Master. But Ah! I
   beseech thee, Theotimus, if a mystical and imaginary vision of the
   temporal and human birth of the Son of God, by which he proceeded man
   from a woman, virgin from a virgin, ravishes and so highly delights a
   child's heart, what shall it be when our spirits, gloriously
   illuminated with the light of glory, shall see this eternal birth by
   which the Son proceeds, God from God, Light from Light, true God from
   true God, divinely and eternally! Then shall our spirit be joined by an
   incomprehensible complacency to this object of delight, and by an
   unchangeable attention remain united to it for ever.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [173] Ps. cix. 3.

   [174] Ps. xviii. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   OF THE UNION OF THE BLESSED WITH GOD IN THE VISION OF THE PRODUCTION OF
   THE HOLY GHOST.

   The eternal Father seeing the infinite goodness and beauty of His own
   essence, so perfectly, essentially and substantially expressed in His
   Son, and the Son seeing reciprocally that His same essence, goodness
   and beauty is originally in His Father as in its source and fountain,
   ah! can it possibly be that this Divine Father and His Son should not
   mutually love one another with an infinite love, since Their will by
   which They love, and Their goodness for which They love are infinite in
   each of Them.

   Love not finding us equal, equalizes us, not finding us united, unites
   us. Now the Father and the Son finding Themselves not only equal and
   united, but even one same God, one same goodness, one same essence and
   one same unity, how much must They needs love one another. But this
   love does not act like the love which intellectual creatures have
   amongst themselves, or towards their Creator; for created love is
   exercised by many and various movements, aspirations, unions and
   joinings which immediately succeed one another, and make a continuation
   of love with a grateful vicissitude of spiritual movements, but the
   divine love of the eternal Father towards His Son is practised in one
   only spiration (souspir) mutually from Them both, Who in this sort
   remain united and joined together. Yes, Theotimus; for the goodness of
   the Father and Son being but one sole most perfectly singular goodness,
   common to Them both, the love of this goodness can be but one only
   love; for though there be two lovers, to wit, the Father and the Son,
   yet seeing it is only Their most singular goodness common to Them both
   which is loved, and Their most unique will which loves, it is therefore
   but one love exercised by one amorous spiration. The Father breathes
   this love and so does the Son; but because the Father only breathes
   this love by means of the same will and for the same goodness which is
   equally and singularly in Him and His Son: the Son again only breathes
   this spiration of love for this same goodness and by this same
   will,--therefore this spiration of love is but one spiration, or one
   only spirit breathed out by two breathers.

   And because the Father and the Son Who breathe, have an infinite
   essence and will by which They breathe, and because the goodness for
   which They breathe is infinite, it is impossible Their breathing should
   not be infinite; and forasmuch as it cannot be infinite without being
   God, therefore this Spirit breathed from the Father and the Son is true
   God: and since there neither is, nor can be, more than one only God, He
   is one only true God with the Father and the Son. Moreover, as this
   love is an act which proceeds mutually from the Father and the Son, it
   can neither be the Father, nor the Son, from whom it proceeds, though
   it has the same goodness and substance of the Father and the Son, but
   must necessarily be a third person, Who with the Father and the Son is
   one only God. And because this love is produced by manner of breathings
   or spirations, it is called the Holy Spirit.

   Now, Theotimus, King David, describing the sweetness of the friendship
   of God's servants, cries out: Behold how good and how pleasant it is
   for brethren to dwell together in unity: like the precious ointment on
   the head, that ran down upon the beard, the beard of Aaron, which ran
   down to the skirt of his garment: as the dew of Hermon, which
   descendeth upon Mount Sion. [175]

   But, O God! if human friendship be so agreeably lovely, and spread so
   delicious an odour on them that contemplate it, what shall it be, my
   well-beloved Theotimus, to behold the sacred exercise of mutual love
   between the eternal Father and the Son. S. Gregory Nazianzen recounts
   that the incomparable love which existed between him and S. Basil the
   Great was famous all through Greece, and Tertullian testifies, that the
   Pagans admired the more than brotherly love which reigned amongst the
   primitive Christians. Oh! with what celebration and solemnity, with
   what praises and benedictions, should be kept, with what admirations
   should be honoured and loved, the eternal and sovereign friendship of
   the Father and the Son! What is there to be loved and desired if
   friendship is not? And if friendship is to be loved and desired, what
   friendship can be so in comparison with that infinite friendship which
   is between the Father and the Son, and Which is one same most sole God
   with them? Our heart, Theotimus, will sink lost in love, through
   admiration of the beauty and sweetness of the love, that this eternal
   Father and this incomprehensible Son practise divinely and eternally.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [175] Ps. cxxxii.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   THAT THE HOLY LIGHT OF GLORY WILL SERVE FOR THE UNION OF THE BLESSED
   SPIRITS WITH GOD.

   The created understanding then shall see the divine essence, without
   any medium of species or representation; yet not without a certain
   excellent light which disposes, elevates, and strengthens it, to raise
   its view so high, and to an object so sublime and resplendent. For as
   the owl has a sight strong enough to bear the sombre light of a clear
   night, but not strong enough to stand the mid-day light, which is too
   brilliant to be borne by eyes so dim and weak; so our understanding,
   which is strong enough to consider natural truths by its discourse, yea
   even the supernatural things of grace by the light of faith, is not yet
   able, by the light of either nature or faith, to attain unto the view
   of the divine substance in itself. Wherefore the sweetness of the
   eternal wisdom determined not to apply His essence to our understanding
   till He had prepared, strengthened and fitted it to receive a sight so
   eminent, and so disproportionate to its natural condition as is the
   view of the Divinity. So the sun, the sovereign object of our corporal
   eyes amongst natural things, does not present itself unto our view
   without sending first its rays, by means whereof we may be able to see
   it, so that we only see it by its light. Yet there is a difference
   between the rays which the sun casts upon our corporal eyes and the
   light which God will create in our understandings in heaven: for the
   sun's rays do not fortify our corporal eyes when they are weak and
   unable to see, but rather blind them, dazzling and confounding their
   infirm vision: whereas, on the contrary, this sacred light of glory,
   finding our understandings unapt and unable to behold the Divinity,
   raises, strengthens and perfects them so excellently, that by an
   incomprehensible marvel they behold and contemplate the abyss of the
   divine brightness in itself with a fixed and direct gaze, not being
   dazzled or beaten back by the infinite greatness of its splendour.

   In like manner, therefore, as God has given us the light of reason, by
   which we may know Him as Author of nature, and the light of faith by
   which we consider Him as source of grace, so will He bestow upon us the
   light of glory by which we shall contemplate Him as the fountain of
   beatitude and eternal life: but a fountain, Theotimus, which we shall
   not contemplate afar off as we do now by faith, but which we shall see
   by the light of glory while plunged and swallowed up in it.

   Divers, who, fishing for precious stones, go down into the water, take
   oil, says Pliny, in their mouths, that by scattering it, they may have
   more light to see in the waters where they swim. Theotimus, a blessed
   soul having entered and plunged into the ocean of the divine essence,
   God will pour into its understanding the sacred light of glory, which
   will enlighten it in this abyss of inaccessible light, that so by the
   light of glory we may see the light of the Divinity. For with Thee is
   the fountain of life; and in Thy light we shall see light. [176]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [176] Ps. xxxv. 10.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XV.

   THAT THERE SHALL BE DIFFERENT DEGREES OF THE UNION OF THE BLESSED WITH
   GOD.

   Now this light of glory, Theotimus, shall be the measure of the sight
   and centemplation of the Blessed; and according as we shall have less
   or more of this holy splendour, we shall see more or less clearly, and
   consequently with more or less happiness, the most holy Divinity, which
   as it is beholden diversely so it will make us diversely glorious. All
   the spirits indeed in this heavenly Paradise see all the divine
   essence, yet it is not seen and cannot be seen entirely by any one of
   them or by all of them together. No, Theotimus, for God being most
   singularly one, and most simply indivisible, we cannot see Him without
   seeing Him all: but being infinite, without limit, without bounds or
   measure at all in His perfection, there neither is, nor can be, any
   capacity out of Himself which can ever totally comprehend or penetrate
   the infinity of His goodness, infinitely essential and essentially
   infinite.

   This created light of the visible sun, which is limited and finite, is
   in such sort all seen by those that behold it that it is never totally
   seen by any one of them nor by all together. It is in a manner so with
   all our senses. Amongst many that hear excellent music, though all of
   them hear it all, yet some hear it not so well, nor with so much
   delight as others, according as their ears are more or less delicate.
   The manna was all tasted by each one that ate it, yet differently,
   according to the different appetites of those who ate it, and was never
   wholly tasted, for it had more tastes of different kinds than the
   Israelites had varieties of tasting power. Theotimus, we shall see and
   taste in heaven all the Divinity, but no one of the Blessed nor all
   together shall ever see or taste it totally. This infinite Divinity
   shall still have infinitely more excellences than we sufficiency and
   capacity; and we shall have an unspeakable content to know that after
   we have satiated all the desires of our heart, and fully replenished
   its capacity in the fruition of the infinite good which is God,
   nevertheless there will remain in this infinity, infinite perfections
   to be seen, enjoyed and possessed, which His divine Majesty knows and
   sees, it alone comprehending itself.

   So fishes enjoy the incredible vastness of the ocean; but not any fish,
   nor yet all the multitude of fishes, ever saw all the shores of the sea
   or wetted their fins in all its waters. Birds sport in the open air at
   their pleasure, but not any bird, nor yet all the flocks of birds
   together, did ever beat with their wings all the regions of the air, or
   arrive at the supreme region of the same. Ah! Theotimus, our souls
   shall freely and according to the full extent of their wishes swim in
   the ocean and soar in the air of the Divinity, rejoicing eternally to
   see that this air is so infinite, this ocean so vast, that it cannot be
   measured by their wings, and that enjoying without reserve or exception
   all this infinite abyss of the Divinity, yet shall they never be able
   to equalize their fruition to this infinity, which remains still
   infinitely infinite beyond their capacity.

   And at this the Blessed Spirits are ravished with two admirations,
   first for the infinite beauty which they contemplate, secondly for the
   abyss of the infinity which remains to be seen in this same beauty. O
   God! how admirable is that which they see! But, O God! how much more
   admirable is that which they see not! And yet, Theotimus, since the
   most sacred beauty which they see is infinite, it entirely satisfies
   and satiates them, and being content to enjoy it according to the rank
   which they hold in heaven, because God's most amiable providence has so
   determined, they convert the knowledge they have of not possessing and
   of not being able totally to possess their object, into a simple
   complacency of admiration, in which they have a sovereign joy to see
   that the beauty they love is so infinite that it cannot be totally
   known but by itself. For in this consists the Divinity of this infinite
   beauty or the beauty of this infinite Divinity.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK IV.

   OF THE

DECAY AND RUIN OF CHARITY.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   THAT AS LONG AS WE ARE IN THIS MORTAL LIFE WE MAY LOSE THE LOVE OF GOD.

   We do not now speak of those great elect souls whom God by a most
   special favour so maintains and confirms in his love, that they run no
   hazard of losing it. We speak for the rest of mortals, to whom the Holy
   Ghost addresses these warnings: He that thinketh himself to stand, let
   him take heed lest he fall. [177] Hold fast that which thou hast, that
   no man take thy crown. [178] Labour the more that by good works you may
   make sure your calling and election. [179] Whence he makes them make
   this prayer: Cast me not away from thy face; and take not thy holy
   spirit from me. [180] And lead us not into temptation: that they may
   work out their salvation with a holy trembling, and a sacred fear,
   [181] knowing that they are not more constant and strong to preserve
   God's love than were the first angel with his followers and Judas, who
   receiving it lost it, and losing it lost themselves for ever; nor than
   Solomon, who, having once left it, holds the whole world in doubt of
   his damnation; nor than Adam and Eve, David, S. Peter, who being
   children of salvation, fell yet for a space from the love without which
   there is no salvation. Alas! Theotimus, who shall then have assurance
   of preserving sacred love in the navigation of this mortal life, since,
   as well on earth as in heaven, so many persons of incomparable dignity
   have suffered such cruel shipwrecks?

   But, O eternal God! how is it possible, will one say, that a soul that
   has the love of God can ever lose it; for where love is it resists sin,
   and how comes it to pass then that sin gets entry there, since love is
   strong as death, hard in fight as hell? [182] How can the forces of
   death or hell, that is, of sins, vanquish love, which at least equals
   them in strength, and surpasses them in helps and in right? And how can
   it be that a reasonable soul which has once relished so great a
   sweetness as is that of heavenly love, can ever willingly swallow the
   bitter waters of offence? Children, though children, being fed with
   milk, abhor the bitterness of wormwood and of aloes, and cry themselves
   into convulsions when they are made to take them. Ah! then, O true God!
   Theotimus, how can the soul, once joined to the goodness of the
   Creator, forsake him to follow the vanity of the creature?

   My dear Theotimus, the heavens themselves are astonished, their gates
   become desolate with fear, [183] and the angels of peace are lost in
   amazement at this prodigious misery of man's heart, abandoning a good
   so worthy of love, to join itself to things so unworthy. But have you
   never seen that little marvel which every one knows, though every one
   does not know the reason of it? When a very full barrel is broached,
   the wine will not run unless it have air given from above, which yet
   happens not to barrels in which there is already a void, for they are
   no sooner open but the wine runs. Truly in this mortal life though our
   souls abound with heavenly love yet they are never so full of it but
   that by temptation this love may depart: in heaven, however, when the
   sweetness of God's beauty shall occupy all our understanding, and the
   delights of his goodness shall wholly satiate our wills, so that there
   shall be nothing which the fulness of his love shall not replenish, no
   object, though it penetrate even to our hearts, can ever draw or make
   run out one sole drop of the precious liquor of our heavenly love. And
   to expect to give air above, that is, to deceive or surprise the
   understanding, shall no more be possible; for it shall be immovable in
   the apprehension of the sovereign truth.

   So wine well purified and separated from the lees is easily kept from
   turning and getting thick; that which is on its lees is in continual
   danger; and we, so long as we are in this world, have our souls upon
   the lees or tartar of a thousand moods and miseries, and consequently
   easy to change and spoil in their love. But once in heaven, where, as
   in the great feast described by Isaias, we shall have wine purified
   from all lees, we shall be no longer subject to change, but be
   inseparably united by love to our sovereign good. Here in the twilight
   of dawning we are afraid that in lieu of the spouse we may meet some
   other object, which may engage and deceive us, but when we shall find
   Him above, where He feeds and reposes in the mid-day, there will be no
   chance of being deceived, for His light will be too clear, and His
   sweetness will bind us so closely to His goodness, that we shall no
   longer have the power to will to unfasten ourselves.

   We are like the coral, which in the sea, the place of its origin, is a
   pale-green, weak, drooping and pliable tree, but being drawn from the
   bottom of the sea, as from its mother's womb, it becomes almost a
   stone, firm and unbending, while it changes its pale-green into a
   lively red. For so we being as yet amidst the sea of this world the
   place of our birth, are subject to extreme vicissitudes, liable to be
   bent on every side; to the right, which is heavenly love, by
   inspiration, to the left, which is earthly love, by temptation. But if,
   being once drawn out of this mortality, we have changed the pale-green
   of our trembling hopes into the bright red of assured fruition, we
   shall never more be movable, but make a settled abode for ever in
   eternal love.

   It is impossible to see the Divinity and not love it, but here below
   where we do not see it, but only have a glimpse of it through the
   clouds of faith, as in a mirror, our knowledge is not yet so perfect as
   not to leave an opening for the surprises of other objects and apparent
   goods, which through the obscurities which are mixed with the certainty
   and verity of faith, steal in unperceived, like little fox cubs, and
   demolish our flourishing vineyard. To conclude, Theotimus, when we have
   charity our free-will is clothed with her wedding garment, which, as
   she can still keep it on if she please by well-doing, so she can put
   off if she please by offending.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [177] 1 Cor. x. 12.

   [178] Apoc. iii. 11.

   [179] 2 Peter i. 10.

   [180] Ps. l. 13.

   [181] Phil. ii. 12.

   [182] Cant. viii. 6.

   [183] Jer. ii. 12.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   HOW THE SOUL GROWS COLD IN HOLY LOVE.

   The soul is often grieved and troubled in the body, even so far as to
   desert many of its members, which remain deprived of motion and
   feeling, while it never forsakes the heart, wherein it fully remains
   till the very end of life. So charity is sometimes weakened and
   depressed in the affections till it seems to be scarcely in exercise at
   all, and yet it remains entire in the supreme region of the soul. This
   happens when, under the multitude of venial sins as under ashes, the
   fire of holy love remains covered, and its flame smothered, though it
   is not dead or extinguished. For as the presence of the diamond hinders
   the exercise and action of that property which the adamant has of
   drawing iron, and yet does not take it away, as it acts immediately
   this obstacle is removed, so the presence of venial sins in no sort
   deprives charity of its force and power to work, yet as it were benumbs
   it and deprives it of the use of its activity, so that charity remains
   without action, sterile and unfruitful. It is true that neither venial
   sin, nor even the affection to it, is contrary to the essential
   resolution of charity, which is to prefer God before all things;
   because by this sin we love something outside reason but not against
   reason, we defer a little too much, and more than is fit, to creatures,
   yet we do not prefer them before the Creator, we occupy ourselves more
   than we ought in earthly things, yet do we not for all that forsake
   heavenly things. In fine, this kind of sin impedes us in the way of
   charity, but does not put us out of it, and therefore venial sin, not
   being contrary to charity, never destroys charity either wholly or
   partially.

   God signified to the Bishop of Ephesus that he had forsaken his first
   charity, [184] where he does not say that he was without charity, but
   only that it was not such as in the beginning; that is, that it was not
   now prompt, fervent, growing in love, or fruitful: as we are wont to
   say of him who from being bright, cheerful and blithe, becomes sad,
   heavy and sullen, that he is not now the same man he was; for our
   meaning is not that he is not the same in substance, but only in his
   actions and exercises. And thus Our Saviour says that in the latter
   days the charity of many shall grow cold, [185] that is, it shall not
   be so active and courageous, by reason of fear and sadness which shall
   oppress men's hearts. Certain it is that when concupiscence hath
   conceived it bringeth forth sin. [186] The sin however, though sin
   indeed, does not always beget the death of the soul, but then only when
   it is complete in malice, and when it is consummate and accomplished,
   as S. James says. And he here establishes so clearly the difference
   between mortal and venial sin, that it is strange that some in our age
   have had the temerity to deny it.

   However, venial sin is sin, and consequently troubles charity, not as a
   thing that is contrary to charity itself, but contrary to its
   operations and progress, and even to its intention. For as this
   intention is that we should direct all our actions to God, it is
   violated by venial sin, which directs the actions by which we commit
   it, not indeed against God yet outside God and his will. And as we say
   of a tree rudely visited and stripped by a tempest that nothing is
   left, because though the tree be entire yet it is left without fruit,
   so when our charity is shaken by the affection we have to venial sin,
   we say it is diminished and weakened; not because the habit of love is
   not entire in our hearts, but because it is without the works which are
   its fruits.

   The affection to great sins did so make truth prisoner to injustice
   amongst the pagan philosophers, that, as the great Apostle says:
   Knowing God they honoured him not according to that knowledge; [187] so
   that though this affection did not banish natural light, yet it made it
   profitless. So the affection to venial sin does not abolish charity,
   but it holds it as a slave, tied hand and foot, hindering its freedom
   and action. This affection, attaching us too closely to the enjoyment
   of creatures, deprives us of the spiritual intimacy between God and us,
   to which charity, as true friendship, excites us; consequently this
   affection makes us lose the interior helps and assistances which are as
   it were the vital and animating spirits of the soul, in default of
   which there follows a certain spiritual palsy, which in the end, if it
   be not remedied, brings us to death. For, after all, charity being an
   active quality cannot be long without either acting or dying: it is,
   say our Ancients, of the nature of Rachel, who also represented it.
   Give me, said she to her husband, children, otherwise I shall die;
   [188] and charity urges the heart which she has espoused to make her
   fertile of good works; otherwise she will perish.

   We are rarely in this mortal life without many temptations. Now low and
   slothful hearts, and such as are given to exterior pleasures, not being
   accustomed to fight nor exercised in spiritual warfare, never preserve
   charity long, but let themselves ordinarily be surprised by mortal sin,
   which happens the more easily because the soul is more disposed by
   venial sin to mortal. For as that man of old, having continued to carry
   every day the same calf, bore him also when he was grown to be a great
   ox, custom having by little and little made insensible the increase of
   so heavy a burden; so he that accustoms himself to play for pence will
   in the end play for crowns, pistoles and horses, and after his stud all
   his estate. [189] He that gives the reins to little angers becomes in
   the end furious and unbearable; he that addicts himself to lying in
   jest, is in great peril of lying with calumny.

   In fine, Theotimus, we are wont to say that such as have a very weakly
   constitution have no life, that they have not an ounce, or not a
   handful of it, because that which is quickly to have an end seems
   indeed already not to be. And those good-for-nothing souls who are
   addicted to pleasure and set upon transitory things, may well say that
   they no longer have charity, for if they have it they are in the way
   soon to lose it.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [184] Apoc. ii. 4.

   [185] Matt. xxiv. 12.

   [186] James i. 15.

   [187] Rom. i. 21.

   [188] Gen. xxx. 1.

   [189] Apres ses chevaux toute sa chevance.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   HOW WE FORSAKE DIVINE LOVE FOR THAT OF CREATURES.

   This misery of quitting God for the creature happens thus. We do not
   love God without intermission, because in this mortal life charity is
   in us as a simple habit, which, as philosophers have remarked, we use
   when we like and never against our liking. When then we do not make use
   of the charity which is in us, that is, when we are not applying our
   spirit to the exercises of holy love, but, when (keeping it busied in
   some other affair, or it being idle in itself) it remains useless and
   negligent, then, Theotimus, it may be assaulted by some bad object and
   surprised by temptation. And though the habit of charity be at that
   instant in the bottom of our hearts and perform its office, inclining
   us to reject the bad suggestion, yet it only urges us or leads us to
   the action of resistance according as we second it, as is the manner of
   habits; and therefore charity leaving us in our freedom, it happens
   often that the bad object having cast its allurements deeply into our
   hearts, we attach ourselves unto it by an excessive complacency, which
   when it comes to grow, we can hardly get rid of, and like thorns,
   according to the saying of Our Saviour, it in the end stifles the seed
   of grace and heavenly love. So it fell out with our first mother Eve,
   whose overthrow began by a certain amusement which she took in
   discoursing with the serpent, receiving complacency in hearing it talk
   of her advancement in knowledge, and in seeing the beauty of the
   forbidden fruit, so that the complacency growing with the amusement and
   the amusement feeding itself in the complacency, she found herself at
   length so entangled, that giving away to consent, she committed the
   accursed sin into which afterwards she drew her husband.

   We see that pigeons, touched with vanity, display themselves (se
   pavonnent) sometimes in the air, and sail about hither and thither,
   admiring the variety of their plumage, and then the tercelets and
   falcons that espy them fall upon them and seize them, which they could
   never do if the pigeons had been flying their proper flight, as they
   have a stronger wing than have birds of prey. Ah! Theotimus, if we did
   not amuse ourselves with the vanity of fleeting pleasures, especially
   in the complacency of self-love, but if having once got charity we were
   careful to fly straight thither whither it would carry us, suggestion
   and temptation should never catch us, but because as doves seduced and
   beguiled by self-esteem we look back upon ourselves, and engage our
   spirits too much with creatures, we often find ourselves seized by the
   talons of our enemies, who bear away and devour us.

   God does not will to hinder temptations from attacking us, to the end
   that by resistance our charity may be more exercised, that by fighting
   we may gain the victory, and by victory obtain the triumph. But for us
   to have any kind of inclination to delight ourselves in the
   temptation--this rises from the condition of our nature, which so
   earnestly loves good that it is subject to be enticed by anything that
   has a show of good, and temptation's hook is ever baited with this kind
   of bait: for, as holy Writ teaches, there is either some good
   honourable in the world's sight to move us to the pride of a worldly
   life, or a good delightful to sense to carry us to concupiscence of the
   flesh, or a good tending towards wealth, to incite us to the
   concupiscence and avarice of the eyes. [190] But if we kept our faith,
   which can discern between the true good we are to pursue and the false
   which we are to reject, sharply attentive to its office, without doubt
   it would be a trusty sentinel to charity, and would give intelligence
   of that evil which approaches the heart under pretext of good, and
   charity would immediately repulse it. But because ordinarily we keep
   our faith either asleep or less attentive than is requisite for the
   preservation of our charity, we are often surprised by temptation,
   which, seducing our senses, while our senses incite the inferior part
   of our soul to rebellion, often brings to pass that the superior part
   of reason yields to the violence of this revolt, and by committing sin
   loses charity.

   Such was the progress of the sedition which the disloyal Absalom
   stirred up against his good father David; for he put forward
   propositions which were good in appearance, which being once received
   by the poor Israelites whose prudence was put to sleep and smothered,
   he solicited them in such sort that he wrought them to a complete
   rebellion; so that David was constrained to depart from Jerusalem with
   all his most faithful friends, leaving there no men of distinction save
   Sadoc and Abiathar, priests of the Eternal, with their children: now
   Sadoc was a seer, that is to say a prophet. [191]

   For so, most dear Theotimus, self-love, finding our faith without
   attention and drowsy, presents unto us vain yet apparent goods, seduces
   our senses, our imagination and the faculties of our souls, and lays so
   hard at our free-wills that it brings them to an entire revolt against
   the holy love of God, which then, as another David, departs from our
   heart with all its train, that is with the gifts of the Holy Ghost and
   the other heavenly virtues, which are the inseparable companions of
   charity, if not her properties and faculties. Nor does there remain in
   the Jerusalem of our soul any virtue of importance saving Sadoc the
   seer, that is the gift of faith which can make us see eternal truths,
   with the exercise of it, and with him Abiathar, that is the gift of
   hope with its action; both these remain much afflicted and sorrowful,
   yet maintain in us the ark of alliance, that is the quality and title
   of Christian purchased by baptism.

   Alas! Theotimus, what a pitiful spectacle it is to the angels of peace
   to see the Holy Ghost and his love depart in this manner out of our
   sinful souls! Verily I think if they could weep they would pour out
   infinite tears, and, with a mournful voice lamenting our misery, would
   sing the sad canticle which Jeremias took up, when sitting upon the
   threshold of the desolate temple he contemplated the ruin of Jerusalem
   in the time of Sedecias: How doth the city sit solitary that was full
   of people! How is the mistress of the Gentiles become as a widow: the
   princess of provinces made tributary! [192]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [190] 1 John ii. 16.

   [191] 2 Kings xv.

   [192] Jer. Lam. i. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   THAT HEAVENLY LOVE IS LOST IN A MOMENT.

   The love of God, which brings us as far as contempt of self, makes us
   citizens of the heavenly Jerusalem; self-love, which pushes us forward
   to the contempt of God, makes us slaves of the infernal Babylon. It is
   true that only little by little we come to despise God, but we have no
   sooner done it than instantly, in a moment, holy charity forsakes us,
   or rather wholly perishes. Yes, Theotimus, for in this contempt of God
   does mortal sin consist, and one only mortal sin banishes charity from
   the soul, inasmuch as it breaks the connection and union with God,
   which is obedience and submission to his will: and as man's heart
   cannot live divided, so charity, which is the heart of the soul and the
   soul of the heart, can never be wounded without being slain: as they
   say of pearls, which being conceived of heavenly dew perish if any drop
   of salt water get within the shell that holds them. Our soul, as you
   know, does not go out of our body by little and little, but in a
   moment, when the indisposition of the body is so great that it can no
   longer exercise the actions of life in it: even so, the very instant
   the heart is so disordered by passions that charity can no longer reign
   there, she quits and abandons it: for she is so noble, that she cannot
   cease to reign without ceasing to be.

   Habits acquired by our human actions alone do not perish by one single
   contrary act: for a man is not said to be intemperate for one single
   act of intemperance, nor is a painter held an unskilful master for
   having once failed in his art; but, as all such habits are acquired by
   the influence of a series of acts, so we lose them by a long cessation
   from their acts or by many contrary acts. But charity, Theotimus, which
   in a moment the Holy Ghost pours into our hearts as soon as the
   conditions requisite for this infusion are found in us, is also in an
   instant taken from us, as soon as, diverting our will from the
   obedience we owe to God, we complete our consent to the rebellion and
   disloyalty to which temptation excites us.

   It is true that charity increases by degrees and goes from perfection
   to perfection according as by our works or by the frequenting of the
   sacraments we make place for it, yet it does not decrease by a
   lessening of its perfection, for we never lose any least part of it but
   we lose it all. In which it resembles the masterpiece of Phidias so
   famous amongst the ancients; for they say that this great sculptor made
   at Athens an ivory statue of Minerva, twenty-six cubits high, and in
   the buckler which she held, wherein he had represented the battles of
   the Amazons and Giants, he carved his own face with so great art that
   one could not take away one line of it, says Aristotle, without
   destroying the whole statue, so that this work, though it had been
   brought to perfection by adding piece to piece, yet would have perished
   in an instant if one little parcel of the workman's likeness had been
   removed. In like manner, Theotimus, though the Holy Ghost having
   infused charity into a soul increases it by adding one degree to
   another and one perfection of love to another, yet still, the
   resolution of preferring God's will before all things being the
   essential point of sacred love, and that wherein the image of eternal
   love, that is of the Holy Ghost, is represented, one cannot withdraw
   one single piece of it but presently charity wholly perishes.

   This preference of God before all things is the dear child of charity.
   And if Agar, who was but an Egyptian, seeing her son in danger of death
   had not the heart to stay by him, but would have left him, saying: Ah!
   I will not see the child die, [193] is it strange then that charity,
   the daughter of heavenly sweetness and delight, cannot bear to behold
   the death of her child, which is the resolution never to offend God? So
   that while free-will is resolving to consent to sin and is thereby
   putting to death this holy resolution, charity dies with it, saying in
   its last sigh: Ah! no, never will I see this child die. In fine,
   Theotimus, as the precious stone called prassius loses its lustre in
   the presence of any poison, so in an instant the soul loses her
   splendour, grace and beauty, which consist in holy love, upon the entry
   and presence of any mortal sin;--whence it is written that the soul
   that sinneth, the same shall die. [194]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [193] Gen. xxi. 16.

   [194] Ezech. xviii. 4.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   THAT THE SOLE CAUSE OF THE DECAY AND COOLING OF CHARITY IS IN THE
   CREATURE'S WILL.

   As it would be an impious effrontery to attribute the works of holy
   love done by the Holy Ghost in and with us to the strength of our will,
   it would be a shameless impiety to lay the defect of love in ungrateful
   men, on the failure of heavenly assistance and grace. For the Holy
   Ghost cries everywhere, on the contrary, that our ruin is from
   ourselves: Destruction is thine own, O Israel! thy help is only in me:
   [195] that Our Saviour brought the fire of love, and desires nothing
   but that it should be enkindled in our hearts: [196] that salvation is
   prepared before the face of all peoples: a light to the revelation of
   the Gentiles and the glory of Israel: [197] that the divine goodness is
   not willing that any should perish, [198] but that all should come to
   the knowledge of the truth: and will have all men to be saved, [199]
   their Saviour being come into the world, that he might redeem them who
   were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. [200]
   And the wise man clearly warns us, Say not: it is through God that she
   (wisdom) is not with me. [201] And the sacred Council of Trent divinely
   inculcates upon all the children of holy Church, that the Grace of God
   is never wanting to such as do what they can, invoking the divine
   assistance; that God never abandons such as he has once justified
   unless they abandon him first; so that, if they be not wanting to grace
   they shall obtain glory.

   In fine, Theotimus, Our Saviour is the true light which enlighteneth
   every man that cometh into this world. [202] Some travellers, one
   summer's day about noontide, lay down to repose under the shade of a
   tree, but while their weariness and the coolness of the shadow kept
   them asleep, the sun advancing on them threw just upon their eyes his
   strongest light, which by its glittering brightness gave glimpses of
   itself like little flashes of lightning about the pupils of these
   sleepers' eyes, and by the heat which pierced their eyelids, forced
   them by a gentle violence to awake. Some of them being awakened get up,
   and making way get happily to their lodging, the rest not only do not
   rise, but turning their backs to the sun and pressing their hats over
   their eyes, spend their day there in sleeping, till surprised by night
   and yet being desirous to make towards their lodging, they stray, one
   here, one there, in the forest, at the mercy of wolves, wild-boars, and
   other savage beasts. Now tell me, I pray, Theotimus, those that
   arrived, ought they not to give all their thanks for their good success
   to the sun, or to speak like a Christian, to the sun's Creator? Yes
   surely; for they thought not of waking when it was time: the sun did
   them this good office, and by the gentle invitation of his light and
   heat came lovingly to call them up. 'Tis true they resisted not his
   call, but he also helped them much even in that; for he spread his
   light fairly upon them, giving them a half-sight of himself through
   their eyelids, and by his heat as it were by his love he unsealed their
   eyes, and urged them to see his day.

   On the contrary, those poor strangers, what right had they to cry in
   that wood: Alas! what have we done to the sun that he did not make us
   see his light, as he did our companions, that we might have arrived at
   our lodgings and not have wandered in this hideous darkness? For who
   would not undertake the sun's or rather God's cause, my dear Theotimus,
   to answer these wretches. What is there, miserable beings, that the sun
   could really do for you and did not? His favours were equal to all ye
   that slept: he approached you all with the same light, touched you with
   the same rays, spread over you a like heat, but unhappy ye, although
   you saw your risen companions take their pilgrim's staff to gain way,
   ye turned your backs to the sun and would not make use of his light,
   nor be conquered by his heat.

   Now, Theotimus, see here what I would say. We are all pilgrims in this
   mortal life; almost all of us have voluntarily slept in sin; God the
   sun of justice darts upon us most sufficiently, yea abundantly, the
   beams of his inspirations, warms our hearts with his benedictions,
   touching every one with the allurements of his love. Ah! how comes it
   then that these allurements allure so few and draw yet fewer? Ah!
   certainly such as, first allured, afterwards drawn, follow the
   inspiration, have great occasion to rejoice, but not to glorify
   themselves for it. Let them rejoice because they enjoy a great good;
   yet let them not glorify themselves therein, because it is by God's
   pure goodness, who, leaving them the profit of their good works,
   reserves to himself the glory of them. But concerning them that remain
   in the sleep of sin: Oh! what good reason they have to lament, groan,
   weep, and say: woe the day! for they are in the most lamentable of
   cases; yet have they no reason to grieve or complain, save about
   themselves, who despised, yea rebelled against, the light; who were
   untractable to invitations, and obstinate against inspirations; so that
   it is their own malice alone they must ever curse and reproach, since
   they themselves are the sole authors of their ruin, the sole workers of
   their damnation. So the Japanese, complaining to the Blessed Francis
   Xavier, their Apostle, that God who had had so much care of other
   nations, seemed to have forgotten their predecessors, not having given
   them the knowledge of himself, for want of which they must have been
   lost: the man of God answered them that the divine natural law was
   engraven in the hearts of all mortals, and that if their forerunners
   had observed it, the light of heaven would without doubt have
   illuminated them, as, on the contrary, having violated it, they
   deserved damnation. An apostolic answer of an apostolic man, and
   resembling the reason given by the great Apostle of the loss of the
   ancient Gentiles, whom he calls inexcusable, for that having known good
   they followed evil; for it is in a word that which he inculcates in the
   first chapter of his epistle to the Romans. Misery upon misery to those
   who do not acknowledge that their misery comes from their malice!

     __________________________________________________________________

   [195] Osee xiii. 9.

   [196] Luke xii. 49.

   [197] Luke ii. 32.

   [198] 2 Peter iii. 9.

   [199] 1 Tim. ii. 4.

   [200] Gal. iv. 5.

   [201] Eccli. xv. 11.

   [202] John i. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   THAT WE OUGHT TO ACKNOWLEDGE ALL THE LOVE WE BEAR TO GOD TO BE FROM
   GOD.

   The love of men towards God takes its being, progress and perfection
   from the eternal love of God towards men. This is the universal sense
   of the Church our mothers who with an ardent jealousy will have us to
   acknowledge our salvation and the means thereof, to proceed solely from
   Our Saviour's mercy, to the end that on earth as in heaven to him alone
   may be honour and glory.

   What hast thou that thou hast not received? says the divine Apostle,
   speaking of the gifts of knowledge, eloquence, and other like qualities
   of Church-pastors; and if thou hast received, why dost thou glory as if
   thou hadst not received. [203] It is true; we have received all from
   God, but especially the supernatural goods of holy love. And if we have
   received them, why should we take the glory of them?

   Certainly if any one would extol himself for having made progress in
   the love of God: Alas! wretched man, should we say unto him, thou wast
   aswoon in thy iniquity, having neither force nor life left in thee to
   rise (as it happened to the princess in our parable), [204] and God of
   his infinite goodness ran to thy succour, and crying with a loud voice;
   Open the mouth of thy attention and I will fill it, [205] he himself
   put his fingers between thy lips and unlocked thy teeth, casting into
   thy heart his holy inspiration, and thou didst receive it; and when
   thou wast brought back to thy senses, he went on by divers movements
   and various means to strengthen thy heart, till at length he infused
   into it his charity, as thy vital and perfect health.

   Well then, tell me now, miserable creature, what hast thou done in all
   this of which thou canst boast? Thou didst consent, I know it well; the
   motion of thy will did freely follow that of heavenly grace. But all
   this, what is it more than to receive the divine operation without
   resistance? And what is there in this, that thou hast not received?
   Yea, poor wretch that thou art, thou didst receive the receiving in
   which thou gloriest, and the consent which thou vauntest: for tell me,
   I pray thee, wilt thou not grant me, that if God had not prevented
   thee, thou wouldst never have perceived his goodness, and consequently
   never have consented to his love? No, nor yet hadst thou thought a
   single good thought of him. His movement gave being and life to thine,
   and if his liberty had not animated, excited and provoked thy liberty,
   by the powerful invitations of his sweetness, thy liberty had been for
   ever unprofitable to thy salvation. I confess thou didst co-operate
   with the inspiration by consenting, but, if thou knowest it not, I
   teach thee that thy co-operation took being from the operation of grace
   and thy freewill together, yet so, that if grace had not prevented and
   filled thy heart with its operation, never had thy heart had either
   power or will to co-operate.

   But tell me again, I beseech thee, vile and abject man, is it not
   ridiculous of thee to think that thou hast a share in the glory of thy
   conversion because thou didst not repel the inspiration? Is not this a
   frenzy of robbers and tyrants, to pretend they give life to those from
   whom they do not take it? And is it not a frantic impiety to think that
   thou gavest holy efficacy and living activity to the divine
   inspiration, because by resistance thou didst not take it away? We can
   hinder the effects of inspiration, but we cannot give it any; it takes
   its force and virtue from the divine goodness which is the place of its
   starting, and not from man's will the place of its arrival. Should we
   not be moved to wrath, to hear the princess of our parable boast that
   it was she that gave virtue and power to the cordial waters and other
   medicines, or that she cured herself, because if she had not received
   the remedies which the king gave her and poured into her mouth (at such
   time as being half dead there remained hardly any sense in her), they
   had had no operation? Yes, might one say to her: ungrateful that thou
   art, thou mightest have obstinately refused to receive the remedies,
   thou mightest, after thou hadst received them into thy mouth, have cast
   them out again, yet for all that it is not true that thou gavest them
   force and virtue. This they had as their natural property, thou didst
   only consent to receive them, and let them operate; and besides, thou
   wouldst never have consented, if the King had not first reinvigorated
   thee, and then solicited thee to take them; never hadst thou received
   them, had not he assisted thee to receive them, opening thy very mouth
   with his fingers, and pouring the potion into it. Art thou not then a
   monster of ingratitude to wish to attribute to thyself a benefit which
   by so many titles thou owest to thy dear spouse?

   The curious little fish, called echeneis, or remora, has indeed the
   power to stay or not to stay a ship sailing on the high sea under full
   sail: but it has not the power to make it set sail, or proceed or
   arrive; it can hinder motion, but cannot give it. Our free-will can
   stay and hinder the course of the inspiration and when the favourable
   gale of God's grace swells the sails of our soul it is in our power to
   refuse consent, and thereby to hinder the effect of the wind's favour:
   but when our spirit sails along, and makes its voyage prosperously, it
   is not we that make the gale of the inspiration blow for us, nor we
   that make our sails swell with it, nor we that give motion to the ship
   of our heart; but we simply receive the gale sent from heaven, consent
   to its motion, and let our ship sail under it, not hindering it by the
   remora of our resistance. It is the inspiration then which impresses on
   our free-will the happy and sweet influence whereby it not only makes
   it see the beauty of good, but also heats, helps, and strengthens it,
   and moves it so sweetly that it thus turns and freely flows out towards
   what is good.

   The heavens in spring time prepare the fresh dewdrops, and shower them
   down upon the face of the sea, and the mother-pearls that open their
   shells receive these drops, which are converted into pearls: but, on
   the contrary, the mother-pearls which keep their shells shut do not
   hinder the dews from falling upon them, yet they hinder them from
   falling into them. Now have not the heavens sent their dew and their
   influence as much upon the one as the other mother-pearl? Why then did
   the one in effect produce its pearl and the others not? The heavens
   were as bountiful to that one which remained sterile as was requisite
   to empearl and impregnate it with its fair unity, [206] but it hindered
   the effect of the heavens' favour, by keeping itself closed and
   covered. And as for that which conceived the pearl on receiving the
   dew, it has nothing in that work which it did not receive from heaven,
   not even its opening whereby it received the dew; for without the
   touches of the morning's rays, which did gently excite it, it had not
   risen up to the surface of the sea, nor yet opened its shell.
   Theotimus, if we have any love for God, his be the honour and glory,
   who did all in us, and without whom nothing were done; ours be the
   profit and obligation. This is the division his divine goodness makes
   with us; he leaves us the fruits of his benefits, and reserves to
   himself the honour and praise of them; and verily since we are nothing
   but by his grace, we ought to be nothing but for his glory.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [203] 1 Cor. iv. 7.

   [204] See Book iii. 3.

   [205] Ps. lxxx. 11.

   [206] i.e. pearl. See p. 82 [Tr.]
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   THAT WE MUST AVOID ALL CURIOSITY, AND HUMBLY ACQUIESCE IN GOD'S MOST
   WISE PROVIDENCE.

   The human spirit is so weak that when it would look too curiously into
   the causes and reasons of God's will it embarrasses and entangles
   itself in the meshes of a thousand difficulties, out of which it has
   much to do to deliver itself; it resembles smoke, for as smoke ascends
   it gets more subtle, and as it grows more subtle it vanishes. In
   striving to raise our reasonings too high in divine things by curiosity
   we grow vain or empty in our thoughts, and instead of arriving at the
   knowledge of truth, we fall into the folly of our vanity.

   But above all we are unreasonable towards Divine providence in regard
   to the diversity of the means which he bestows upon us to draw us to
   his holy love, and by his holy love to glory. For our temerity urges us
   ever to inquire why God gives more means to one than to another; why he
   did not amongst the Tyrians and Sidonians the miracles which he did in
   Corozain and Bethsaida, seeing they would have made as good use of
   them; and, in fine, why he draws one rather than another to his love.

   O Theotimus! my friend, never, no never, must we permit our minds to be
   carried away by this mad whirlwind, nor expect to find a better reason
   of God's will than his will itself, which is sovereignly reasonable,
   yea, the reason of all reasons, the rule of all goodness, the law of
   all equity. And although the Holy Ghost, speaking in the Holy
   Scripture, gives reason in divers places of almost all we can wish to
   know of what this divine providence does in conducting men to holy love
   and eternal salvation, yet on various occasions he shows that we must
   in no wise depart from the respect which is due to his will, whose
   purpose, decree, good-pleasure, and sentence we are to adore; and he
   being sovereign judge and sovereignly equitable, it is not reasonable
   that at the end he manifest his motives, but it is sufficient that he
   say simply--for reasons. And if charity obliges us to bear so much
   respect to the decrees of sovereign courts, composed of corruptible
   judges, of the earth and earthly, as to believe that they were not made
   without motives, though we know these not--ah! Lord God, with what a
   loving reverence ought we to adore the equity of thy supreme providence
   which is infinite in justice and goodness!

   So in a thousand places of the holy Word we find the reason why God has
   reprobated the Jews. Because, say S. Paul and S. Barnabas, you reject
   the word of God, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold
   we turn to the Gentiles. [207] And he that shall consider in
   tranquillity of heart Chapters IX. X. and XI. of the Epistle to the
   Romans, shall clearly see that God's will did not without reason reject
   the Jews; nevertheless, this reason must not be sought out by man's
   spirit, which, on the contrary, is obliged to be satisfied with purely
   and simply reverencing the divine decree, admiring it with love as
   infinitely just and upright, and loving it with admiration as
   impenetrable and incomprehensible. So that the divine Apostle thus
   concludes the long discourse which he had made concerning it: O the
   depth of the riches of the wisdom and of the knowledge of God! How
   incomprehensible are his judgments, and how unsearchable his ways! For
   who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been his counsellor?
   [208] By which exclamation he testifies that God does all things with
   great wisdom, knowledge and reason; yet so, that, as man has not
   entered into the divine counsels, whose judgments and designs are
   placed infinitely above our reach, we ought devoutly to adore his
   decrees as most just, without searching out their motives. These he
   keeps in secret to himself, in order to keep our understanding in
   respect and humility to ourself.

   S. Augustine in a hundred places teaches us this practice. "No one
   cometh to Our Saviour," says he, "if not drawn;--whom he draws, and
   whom he draws not, why he draws this one and not that,--do not wish to
   judge if you do not wish to err. Listen once for all and understand.
   Art thou not drawn, pray that thou mayst be drawn." "Verily it is
   sufficient for a Christian living as yet by faith, and not seeing that
   which is perfect, but only knowing in part, to know and believe that
   God delivers none from damnation, but by his free mercy, through our
   Lord Jesus Christ; and that he condemns none but by his most just
   truth, through the same Lord Jesus Christ. But to know why he delivers
   this one rather than the other--let that man sound so great a depth of
   God's judgments who is able, but let him beware of the precipice."
   "These judgments are not therefore unjust because they are hidden."
   "But why then does he deliver this man rather than that? We say again,
   O man, who art thou that repliest against God? [209] His judgments are
   incomprehensible, and his ways unknown, and let us add this: Seek not
   the things that are too high for thee, and search not into things above
   thy ability:" [210] "Now he granteth not them mercy, to whom, by a
   truth most secret and furthest removed from men's thoughts, he judges
   it not fit to communicate his favours and mercy."

   We see sometimes twins, of whom one is born alive and receives Baptism,
   the other in his birth loses his temporal life, before being
   regenerated to the eternal, and consequently the one is heir of heaven,
   the other is deprived of the inheritance. Now why does divine
   providence give such different fates to one equal birth? Truly it might
   be answered that ordinarily God's providence does not violate the laws
   of nature, so that one of these twins being strong, and the other too
   feeble to support the labour of his delivery, the latter died before he
   could be baptized, the other lived; divine providence not willing to
   stop the course of natural causes, which on this occasion were the
   reason why the one was deprived of Baptism. And truly this is a
   perfectly solid answer. But, following the advice of the divine S.
   Paul, and of S. Augustine, we ought not to busy our thoughts in this
   consideration, which, though it be good, yet in no respect enters into
   comparison with many others which God has reserved to himself, and will
   show us in heaven. "Then," says S. Augustine, "the secret shall end why
   rather the one than the other was received, the causes being equal as
   to both, and why miracles were not done amongst those who in case they
   had been done would have been brought to repentance, and were done
   amongst such as would will not to believe them." And in another place
   the same saint, speaking of sinners, some of whom God leaves in their
   iniquity while others he raises, says: "Now why he retains the one and
   not the other, it is not possible to comprehend, nor lawful to inquire,
   since it is enough to know that it is by him we stand and that it is
   not by him we fall." And again: "This is hidden and far removed from
   man's understanding, at least from mine."

   Behold, Theotimus, the most holy way of philosophising on this subject.
   Wherefore I have always considered that the learned modesty and most
   wise humility of the seraphic Doctor S. Bonaventure were greatly to be
   admired and loved, in the discourse which he makes of the reason why
   divine providence ordains the elect to eternal life. "Perhaps," says
   he, "it is by a foresight of the good works which will be done by him
   that is drawn, insomuch as they proceed in some sort from the will: but
   distinctly to declare which good works being foreseen move God's will,
   I am not able, nor will I make inquiry thereupon: and there is no other
   reason than some sort of congruity, so that we might assign one while
   it might be another. Wherefore we cannot with assurance point out the
   true reason nor the true motive of God's will in this: for as S.
   Augustine says: 'Although the truth of it is most certain, yet is it
   far removed from our thoughts.' So that we can say nothing assuredly of
   it unless by the revelation of him who knows all things. And whereas it
   was not expedient for our salvation that we should have knowledge of
   these secrets, but on the contrary, it was more profitable that we
   should be ignorant of them, to keep us in humility, God would not
   reveal them, yea the holy Apostle did not dare to inquire about them,
   but testified the insufficiency of our understanding in this matter
   when he cried out: O the depth of the riches of the wisdom and of the
   knowledge of God!" Could one speak more holily Theotimus of so holy a
   mystery? Indeed these are the words of a most saintly and prudent
   Doctor of the Church.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [207] Acts xiii. 46.

   [208] Rom. xi. 33, 34.

   [209] Rom. ix. 20.

   [210] Eccli. iii. 22.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   AN EXHORTATION TO THE AMOROUS SUBMISSION WHICH WE OWE TO THE DECREES OF
   DIVINE PROVIDENCE.

   Let us love then, Theotimus, and adore in humility of spirit this depth
   of God's judgments, which, as S. Augustine says, the holy Apostle
   discovers not, but admires, when he cries out: O the depth of God's,
   judgments! "Who can count the sands of the sea, and the drops of rain,
   or measure the depths of the abyss," says that excellent understanding
   S. Gregory Nazianzen: [211] "and who can sound the depth of the Divine
   Wisdom by which it has created all things, and governs them as it
   pleases and judges fit. For indeed it suffices that, after the example
   of the Apostle, we admire it without stopping at the difficulty and
   obscurity of it. O the depth of the riches of the wisdom and of the
   knowledge of God! How incomprehensible are his judgments, and how
   unsearchable his ways! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who
   hath been his counsellor? Theotimus, the reasons of God's will cannot
   be penetrated by our intelligence till we see the face of him who
   reacheth from end to end mightily and ordereth all things sweetly;
   [212] doing all that he doth in measure, and number, and weight; [213]
   and to whom the Psalmist says, Lord, thou hast made all things in
   wisdom." [214]

   How often does it happen that we are ignorant why and how even the
   works of men are done? And therefore, says the same holy Bishop of
   Nazianzus, "as the artist is not ignorant of his art, so the things of
   this world are not carelessly and unskilfully made, though we know not
   the reasons of them." Entering into a clockmaker's shop, we shall
   sometimes find a clock no greater than an orange, which yet has in it a
   hundred or two hundred pieces, of which some serve to show the time,
   others to strike the hour or give the morning alarm; we shall see in it
   little wheels, some turning to the right, others to the left, one by
   the top, another by the bottom; and the balance which with measured
   beats keeps rising and falling on either side. We wonder how art could
   join together such a number of pieces, with so just a correspondence,
   not knowing what each little piece serves for, nor why it is made so,
   unless the master tell us; knowing only in general that all serve
   either to point out or to strike the hour. It is reported that the good
   Indians will stand whole days musing upon a clock, to hear it strike at
   the times fixed, and not being able to guess how it is done, they do
   not therefore say that it is without art or reason, but are taken with
   love and respect towards those who regulate the clocks, admiring them
   as more than men. Theotimus, we see in this manner the universe, but
   specially human nature, to be a sort of clock, composed with so great a
   variety of actions and movements that we cannot but be astonished at
   it. And we know in general that these so diversely ordered pieces serve
   all, either to point out, as on a dial-plate, God's most holy justice
   or as by a bell of praise, to sound the triumphant mercy of his
   goodness. But to know the particular use of every piece, how it is
   ordered to the general end, or why it is so, we cannot conceive, unless
   the sovereign Workman instruct us. Now he conceals his art from us, to
   the end that with more reverence we may admire it, till in heaven he
   shall ravish us with the sweetness of his wisdom, where in the
   abundance of his love he will discover unto us the reasons, means and
   motives of all that shall have passed in the world towards our eternal
   salvation.

   "We resemble," says yet again the great Nazianzen, "those, who are
   troubled with giddiness or turning of the head. They think that all
   about them is turning upside down, though it be but their brain and
   imagination which turn, and not the things; so we, when we meet with
   any events of which the causes are unknown to us, fancy that the world
   is governed without reason, because we are ignorant of it. Let us
   believe then that as God is the maker and father of all things, so he
   takes care of all things by his providence, which embraces and sustains
   all the machine of creatures. But especially let us believe that he
   rules our affairs, (ours who know him) though our life be tossed about
   in so great contrariety of accidents. Of these we know not the reasons,
   to the end, perhaps, that not being able to attain this knowledge we
   may admire the sovereign reason of God which surpasses all things: for
   with us things easily known are easily despised; but that which
   surpasses the highest powers of our spirit, by how much it is harder to
   be known, by so much it excites a greater admiration in us. Truly the
   reasons of divine providence were low placed if our small capacities
   could reach unto them; they would be less lovable in their sweetness
   and less admirable in their majesty if they were set at a less distance
   from our capacity!"

   Let us cry out then, Theotimus, on all occurrences, but let it be with
   an entirely amorous heart towards the most wise, most prudent, and most
   sweet providence of our eternal Father: O the depth of the riches of
   the wisdom and of the knowledge of God! O Saviour Jesus, Theotimus, how
   excessive are the riches of the Divine goodness! His love towards us is
   an incomprehensible abyss, whence he has provided for us a rich
   sufficiency, or rather a rich abundance of means proper for our
   salvation; and sweetly to apply them he makes use of a sovereign
   wisdom, having by his infinite knowledge foreseen and known all that
   was requisite to that effect. Ah! what can we fear, nay rather, what
   ought not we to hope for, being the children of a Father so rich in
   goodness to love and to will to save us; who knows so well how to
   prepare the means suitable for this and is so wise to apply them; so
   good to will, so clear-sighted to ordain, and so prudent to execute?

   Let us never permit our minds to flutter with curiosity about God's
   judgments, for, like little butterflies, we shall burn our wings, and
   perish in this sacred flame. These judgments are incomprehensible, or,
   as S. Gregory Nazianzen says, inscrutable, that is, one cannot search
   out and sound their motives: the means and ways by which he executes
   and brings them to perfection cannot be discerned and recognized: and,
   clever as we may be, yet we shall find ourselves thrown out at every
   turn and lose the scent. For who hath known the mind, the meaning and
   the intention of God? Who hath been his counsellor, to know his
   purposes and their motives? Or who hath first given to him? Is it not
   he, on the contrary, who presents us with the benedictions of his grace
   to crown us with the felicity of his glory ? Ah! Theotimus, all things
   are from him, as being their Creator; all things are by him, as being
   their Governor; all things are in him, as being their Protector; to him
   be honour and glory for ever and ever, Amen! [215] Let us walk in
   peace, Theotimus, in the way of holy love, for he that shall have
   divine love in dying, after death shall enjoy love eternally.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [211] Orat. xiv.: On Love of the Poor.

   [212] Wis. viii. 1.

   [213] Ibid. xi. 21.

   [214] Ps. ciii. 24.

   [215] Rom. xi.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   OF A CERTAIN REMAINDER OF LOVE THAT OFTENTIMES RESTS IN THE SOUL THAT
   HAS LOST HOLY CHARITY.

   The life of a man who, spent out, lies dying little by little on his
   bed, hardly deserves to be termed life, since, though it be life, it is
   so mingled with death that it is hard to say whether it is a death yet
   living or a life dying. Alas! how pitiful a spectacle it is, Theotimus!
   But far more lamentable is the state of a soul ungrateful to her
   Saviour, who goes backward step by step, withdrawing herself from God's
   love by certain degrees of indevotion and disloyalty, till at length,
   having quite forsaken it, she is left in the horrible obscurity of
   perdition. This love which is in its decline, and which is fading and
   perishing, is called imperfect love, because, though it be entire in
   the soul, yet seems it not to be there entirely; that is, it hardly
   stays in the soul any longer, but is upon the point of forsaking it.
   Now, charity being separated from the soul by sin, there frequently
   remains a certain resemblance of charity which may deceive us and
   vainly occupy our minds, and I will tell you what it is. Charity while
   it is in us produces many actions of love towards God, by the frequent
   exercise of which our soul gets a habit and custom of loving God, which
   is not charity, but only a bent and inclination which the multitude of
   the actions has given to our hearts.

   After a long habit of preaching or saying Mass with deliberation, it
   happens often that in dreaming we utter and speak the same things which
   we should say in preaching or celebrating; in the same manner the
   custom and habit acquired by election and virtue is, in some sort,
   afterwards practised without election or virtues since the actions of
   those who are asleep have, generally speaking, nothing of virtue save
   only an apparent image, and are only the similitudes or representations
   thereof. So charity, by the multitude of acts which it produces,
   imprints in us a certain facility in loving which it leaves in us even
   after we are deprived of its presence. When I was a young scholar, I
   found that in a village near Paris, in a certain well, there was an
   echo, which would repeat several times the words that we pronounced in
   it: and if some simpleton without experience had heard these
   repetitions of words, he would have thought there was some one at the
   bottom of the well who did it. But we knew beforehand by philosophy
   that it was not any one in the well who repeated our words, but simply
   that there were cavities, in one of which our voices were collected,
   and not finding a passage through, they, lest they might altogether
   perish and not employ the force that was left to them, produced second
   voices, and these gathering together in another concavity produced a
   third, the third a fourth, and so consecutively up to eleven, so that
   those voices in the well were no longer our voices, but resemblances
   and images of them. And indeed there was a great difference between our
   voices and those: for when we made a long continuance of words, they
   only repeated some, they shortened the pronunciation of the syllables,
   which they uttered very rapidly; and with tones and accents quite
   different from ours; nor did they begin to form these words until we
   had quite finished pronouncing them. In fine, they were not the words
   of a living man, but, so to say, of a hollow and empty rock, which
   notwithstanding so well counterfeited man's voice whence they sprang,
   that an ignorant person would have been misled and beguiled by them.

   Now this is what I would say. When holy charity meets a pliable soul in
   which she long resides, she produces a second love, which is not a love
   of charity, though it issues from charity; it is a human love which is
   yet so like charity, that though afterwards charity perish in the soul
   it seems to be still there, inasmuch as it leaves behind it this its
   picture and likeness, which so represents charity that one who was
   ignorant would be deceived therein, as were the birds by the painting
   of the grapes of Zeuxis, which they deemed to be true grapes, so
   exactly had art imitated nature. And yet there is a great difference
   between charity and the human love it produces in us: for the voice of
   charity declares, impresses, and effects all the commandments of God in
   our hearts; the human love which remains after it does indeed sometimes
   declare and impress all the commandments, yet it never effects them
   all, but some few only. Charity pronounces and puts together all the
   syllables, that is, all the circumstances of God's commandments; human
   love always leaves out some of them, especially that of the right and
   pure intention; and as for the tone, charity keeps it always steady,
   sweet, and full of grace, human love takes it always too high in
   earthly things, or too low in heavenly, and never sets upon its work
   until charity has ended hers. For so long as charity is in the soul,
   she uses this human love which is her creature and employs it to
   facilitate her operations; so that during that time the works of this
   love, as of a servant, belong to charity its mistress: but when charity
   is gone, then the actions of this love are entirely its own, and have
   no longer the price and value of charity. For as the staff of Eliseus,
   in his absence, though in the hand of Giezi who received it from him,
   wrought no miracle, so actions done in the absence of charity, by the
   simple habit of human love, are of no value or merit to eternal life,
   though this human love learned from charity to do them, and is but
   charity's servant. And this so comes about because this human love, in
   the absence of charity, has no supernatural strength to raise the soul
   to the excellent action of the love of God above all things.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   HOW DANGEROUS THIS IMPERFECT LOVE IS.

   Alas! my Theotimus, behold, I pray you, the poor Judas after he had
   betrayed his Master, how he goes to return the money to the Jews, how
   he acknowledges his sin, how honourably he speaks of the blood of this
   immaculate Lamb. These were effects of imperfect love, which former
   charity, now past, had left in his heart. We descend to impiety by
   certain degrees, and hardly any one arrives in an instant at the
   extremity of malice.

   Perfumers, though out of their shops, bear about with them for a long
   time the scent of the perfumes which they have handled. In like manner,
   those who have been in the cabinet of heavenly ointments, that is in
   holy charity, keep for some time afterwards the scent of it.

   Where the hart has lodged by night, there, the morning after, is a
   fresh scent or vent of him; towards night it is harder to perceive; and
   as his strain grows older and harder, the hounds lose it more and more.
   When charity has reigned for a time in the soul, one may find there its
   path, marks, strain or scent for a time after it has departed, but
   little by little all this quite vanishes, and a man loses all knowledge
   that charity was ever there.

   I have seen certain young people, well brought up in the love of God,
   who, putting themselves out of that path, remained for some time during
   their miserable decay still giving great signs of their past virtue,
   and, the habit acquired in time of charity resisting present vice,
   scarcely could one for some months discern whether they were out of
   charity or not, and whether they were virtuous or vicious, till such
   time as the course of things made it clear that these virtuous
   exercises proceeded not from present charity but from past, not from
   perfect but from imperfect love, which charity had left behind her, as
   a sign that she had lodged in those souls.

   Now this imperfect love, Theotimus, is good in itself, for being a
   creature of holy charity, and as it were one of her retinue, it cannot
   but be good; and indeed it did faithfully serve charity, while she
   sojourned in the soul, as it is still ready to serve upon her return.
   Nor is it to be contemned because it cannot do actions of perfect love,
   the condition of its nature being such; as stars, which in comparison
   with the sun are very imperfect, are yet extremely beautiful beheld
   alone, and, having no worth in the presence of the sun, have some in
   his absence.

   At the same time though this imperfect love be good in itself, yet it
   is perilous for us; for oftentimes we are contented with it alone,
   because having many exterior and interior marks of charity, we,
   thinking we have charity, deceive ourselves and think we are holy,
   while, in this vain persuasion, the sins which deprived us of charity
   increase, grow great, and multiply so fast that in the end they make
   themselves masters of our heart.

   Self-love deceives us, as Laban did Jacob between Rachel and Lia. We
   leave charity for a moment, and this imperfect habit of human love is
   thrust on us, and we content ourselves with it as if it were true
   charity, till some clear light shows us that we have been deceived.

   Ah! my God! is it not a great pity to see a soul flattering herself in
   the imagination of being holy, and remaining in repose as though she
   were possessed of charity, only to find in the end that her holiness is
   a fiction, her rest a lethargy, and her joy a madness.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   A MEANS TO DISCERN THIS IMPERFECT LOVE.

   But, you will ask me, what means is there to discern whether it be
   Rachel or Lia, charity or imperfect love, which gives me the feelings
   of devotion wherewith I am touched? If when you examine in particular
   the objects of the desires, affections and designs which you have at
   the time, you find any one for which you would go against the will and
   good-pleasure of God by sinning mortally, it is then beyond doubt that
   all the feeling, all the facility and promptitude which you have in
   God's service, issue from no other source than human and imperfect
   love: for if perfect love reigned in us--Ah! it would break every
   affection, every desire, every design, the object of which was so
   pernicious, and it would not endure that your heart should behold it.

   But note that I said this examination must be made upon the affections
   you have at the time, for it is not requisite that you should imagine
   to yourself such as may arise hereafter, since it is sufficient that we
   be faithful in present occurrences, according to the diversity of
   times, and since each season has quite enough labour and pain of its
   own.

   Yet if you were desirous to exercise your heart in spiritual valour, by
   the representation of divers encounters and assaults, you might
   profitably do so, provided that after the acts of this imaginary valour
   which your heart may have made, you esteem not yourself more valiant:
   for the children of Ephraim, who did wonders with their bows and arrows
   in their warlike games at home, when it came indeed to the push upon
   the day of battle, turned their backs, and had not so much as the
   courage to lay their arrows on the string, or to face the points of
   those of their enemies. They have turned back in the day of battle.
   [216]

   When therefore we practise this valour about future occurrences, or
   such as are only possible, if we find a good and faithful feeling we
   are to thank God for it, for this feeling is good as far as it goes:
   still we are to keep ourselves with humility between confidence and
   diffidence, hoping that by God's grace we should do, on occasion, that
   which we imagined, and still fearing that according to our ordinary
   misery we should perhaps do nothing and lose heart. But if the
   diffidence should become so excessive, that we should seem to ourselves
   to have neither force nor courage, and therefore feel a despair with
   regard to imaginary temptations, as though we were not in God's charity
   and grace, then in despite of our feeling of discouragement we must
   make a resolution of great fidelity in all that may occur up to the
   temptation which troubles us, hoping that when it comes, God will
   multiply his grace, redouble his succours, and afford us all necessary
   assistance; and while he gives us not the force for an imaginary and
   unnecessary war, he will give it us when it comes to the need. For as
   many in the assault have lost courage, so many have also lost fear, and
   have taken heart and resolution in the presence of danger and
   difficulty which without this they could never have done. And so, many
   of God's servants, representing to themselves absent temptations, have
   been affrighted at them even almost to the losing of courage, while
   when they saw them present, they behaved themselves courageously.
   Finally in those fears which arise from the representation of future
   assaults, when our heart seems to fail us, it is sufficient that we
   desire courage, and trust that God will bestow it upon us at the
   necessary time. Samson had not his strength always but we are told in
   the Scripture that the lion of the vines of Thamnatha, coming towards
   him, raging and roaring, the spirit of the Lord came upon him: that is,
   God gave him the movement of a new force and a new courage, and he tore
   the lion as he would have torn a kid in pieces. [217] And the same
   happened when he defeated the thousand Philistines, who thought they
   would have overthrown him in the field of Lechi. So, my dear Theotimus,
   it is not necessary for us to have always the feeling and movement of
   courage requisite to overcome the roaring lion which goeth about
   seeking whom he may devour: this might cause us vanity and presumption.
   It is sufficient that we have a good desire to fight valiantly, and a
   perfect confidence that the Holy Ghost will assist us with his helping
   hand, when occasion shall present itself.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [216] Ps. lxxvii. 9.

   [217] Judges xiv.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK V.

   OF THE

TWO PRINCIPAL EXERCISES OF HOLY LOVE WHICH CONSIST IN COMPLACENCY AND
BENEVOLENCE.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   OF THE SACRED COMPLACENCY OF LOVE; AND FIRST OF WHAT IT CONSISTS.

   Love, as we have said, is no other thing than the movement and
   outflowing of the heart towards good by means of the complacency which
   we take in it; so that complacency is the great motive of love, as love
   is the great movement of complacency.

   Now this movement is practised towards God in this manner. We know by
   faith that the Divinity is an incomprehensible abyss of all perfection,
   sovereignly infinite in excellence and infinitely sovereign in
   goodness. This truth which faith teaches us we attentively consider by
   meditation, beholding that immensity of goods which are in God, either
   all together by assembling all the perfections, or in particular by
   considering his excellences one after another; for example, his
   all-power, his all-wisdom his all-goodness, his eternity, his infinity.
   Now when we have brought our understanding to be very attentive to the
   greatness of the goods that are in this Divine object, it is impossible
   that our will should not be touched with complacency in this good, and
   then we use the liberty and power which we have over ourselves,
   provoking our own heart to redouble and strengthen its first
   complacency by acts of approbation and rejoicing. "Oh!" says the devout
   soul then, "how beautiful art thou, my beloved, how beautiful art thou!
   Thou art all desirable, yea, thou art desire itself! Such is my beloved
   and he is my friend, O ye daughters of Jerusalem. [218] O blessed be my
   God for ever because he is so good! Ah! whether I die or whether I
   live, too happy am I in knowing that my God is so rich in all goodness,
   his goodness so infinite, and his infinity so good!"

   Thus approving the good which we see in God, and rejoicing in it, we
   make the act of love which is called complacency; for we please
   ourselves in the divine pleasure infinitely more than in our own, and
   it is this love which gave so much content to the Saints when they
   could recount the perfections of their well-beloved, and which caused
   them to declare with so much delight that God was God. Know ye, said
   they, that the Lord he is God. O God, my God, my God, thou art my God.
   I have said to the Lord: Thou art my God. Thou art the God of my heart,
   and my God is my portion for ever. [219] He is the God of our heart by
   this complacency, since by it our heart embraces him and makes him its
   own: he is our inheritance, because by this act, we enjoy the goods
   which are in God, and, as from an inheritance, we draw from it all
   pleasure and content: by means of this complacency we spiritually drink
   and eat the perfections of the Divinity, for we make them our own and
   draw them into our hearts.

   Jacob's ewes drew into themselves the variety of colours which they
   observed. So a soul, captivated by the loving complacency which she
   takes in considering the Divinity, and in it an infinity of
   excellences, draws into her heart the colours thereof, that is to say,
   the multitude of wonders and perfections which she contemplates, and
   makes them her own by the pleasure which she takes in them.

   O God! what joy shall we have in heaven, Theotimus, when we shall see
   the well-beloved of our hearts as an infinite sea, whose waters are
   perfection and goodness! Then as stags, long and sorely chased, putting
   their mouths to a clear and cool stream draw into themselves the
   coolness of its fair waters, so our hearts, after so many languors and
   desires meeting with the mighty and living spring of the Divinity,
   shall draw by their complacency all the perfections of the
   well-beloved, and shall have the perfect fruition of them by the joy
   which they shall take in them, replenishing themselves with his
   immortal delights; and in this way the dear spouse will enter into us
   as into his nuptial bed, to communicate his eternal joy unto our souls,
   according as he himself says, that if we keep the holy law of his love
   he will come and dwell within us. Such is the sweet and noble robbery
   of love, which, without uncolouring the well-beloved colours itself
   with his colours; without disrobing him invests itself with his robes,
   without taking from him takes all that he has, and without
   impoverishing him is enriched with all his wealth; as the air takes
   light, not lessening the original brightness of the sun, and the mirror
   takes the grace of the countenance, not diminishing that of him who
   looks in it.

   They became abominable, as those things were which they loved, [220]
   said the Prophet, speaking of the wicked; so might one say of the good,
   that they are become lovely as the things they have loved. Behold, I
   beseech you, the heart of S. Clare of Montefalco: it so delighted in
   our Saviour's passion and in meditating on the most holy Trinity, that
   it drew into itself all the marks of the passion, and an admirable
   representation of the Trinity, being made such as the things it loved.
   The love which the great Apostle S. Paul bore to the life, death and
   passion of our divine Saviour was so great that it drew the very life,
   death, and passion of this divine Saviour into his loving servant's
   heart; whose will was filled with it by dilection, his memory by
   meditation, and his understanding by contemplation. But by what channel
   or conduit did the sweet Jesus come into the heart of S. Paul? By the
   channel of complacency, as he himself declares, saying: God forbid that
   I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. [221] For
   if you mark well, there is no difference between glorying in a person
   and taking complacency in him, between glorying and delighting in, save
   that he who glories in a thing, to pleasure adds honour; honour not
   being without pleasure, though pleasure can be without honour. This
   soul, then, had such complacency, and esteemed himself so much honoured
   in the divine goodness which appears in the life, death and passion of
   our Saviour, that he took no pleasure but in this honour. And it is
   this that made him say, God forbid that I should glory save in the
   cross of our Lord Jesus Christ; as he also said that he lived not
   himself but Jesus Christ lived in him.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [218] Cant. v. 16.

   [219] Ps. xcix. xv. lxxii.

   [220] Osee ix. 10.

   [221] Gal. vi. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   HOW BY HOLY COMPLACENCY WE ARE MADE AS LITTLE INFANTS AT OUR SAVIOUR'S
   BREASTS.

   O God! how happy the soul is who takes pleasure in knowing and fully
   knowing that God is God, and that his goodness is an infinite goodness!
   For this heavenly spouse, by this gate of complacency, enters into us
   and sups with us and we with him. We feed ourselves with his sweetness
   by the pleasure which we take therein, and satiate our heart in the
   divine perfections by the delight we take in them: and this repast is a
   supper by reason of the repose which follows it, complacency making us
   sweetly rest in the sweetness of the good which delights us, and with
   which we feed our heart; for as you know, Theotimus, the heart is fed
   with that which delights it, whence in our French tongue we say that
   such a one is fed with honour, another with riches, as the wise man
   said that the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness, [222] and the
   sovereign wisdom protests that his meat, that is his pleasure, is to do
   the will of him that sent him. [223] In conclusion the physician's
   aphorism is true--what is relished, nourishes: and the
   philosophers--what pleases, feeds.

   Let my beloved come into his garden, said the sacred spouse, and eat
   the fruit of his apple-trees. [224] Now the heavenly spouse comes into
   his garden when he comes into the devout soul, for seeing his delight
   is to be with the children of men, where can he better lodge than in
   the country of the spirit, which he made to his image and likeness. He
   himself plants in this garden the loving complacency which we have in
   his goodness, and which we feed on; as, likewise, his goodness takes
   his pleasure and repast in our complacency; so that, again, our
   complacency is augmented in perceiving that God is pleased to see us
   pleased in him. So that these reciprocal pleasures cause the love of an
   incomparable complacency, by which our soul, being made the garden of
   her spouse, and having from his goodness the apple trees of his
   delights, renders him the fruit thereof, since she is pleased that he
   is pleased in the complacency she takes in him. Thus do we draw God's
   heart into ours, and he spreads in it his precious balm, and thus is
   that practised which the holy bride spoke with such joy. The king hath
   brought me into his store-rooms: we will be glad and rejoice in thee,
   remembering thy breasts more than wine; the righteous love thee. [225]
   For I pray you, Theotimus, what are the store-rooms of this king of
   love but his breasts, which abound in the variety of sweetness and
   delights. The bosom and breasts of the mother are the storeroom of the
   little infant's treasures: he has no other riches than those, which are
   more precious unto him than gold or the topaz, more beloved than all
   the rest of the world.

   The soul then which contemplates the infinite treasures of divine
   perfections in her well-beloved, holds herself too happy and rich in
   this that love makes her mistress by complacency of all the perfections
   and contentments of this dear spouse. And even as a baby makes little
   movements towards his mother's breasts, and dances with joy to see them
   discovered, and as the mother again on her part presents them unto him
   with a love always a little forward, even so the devout soul feels the
   thrillings and movements of an incomparable joy, through the content
   which she has in beholding the treasures of the perfections of the king
   of her holy love; but especially when she sees that he himself
   discovers them by love, and that amongst them that perfection of his
   infinite love excellently shines. Has not this fair soul reason to cry:
   O my king how lovable are thy riches and how rich thy loves! Oh! which
   of us has more joy, thou that enjoyest it, or I who rejoice thereat! We
   will be glad and rejoice in thee remembering thy breasts [226] so
   abounding in all excellence of sweetness! I because my well-beloved
   enjoys it, thou because thy well-beloved rejoices in it; we both enjoy
   it, since thy goodness makes thee enjoy my rejoicing, and my love makes
   me rejoice in thy enjoying. Ah! the righteous and the good love thee,
   and how can one be good and not love so great a goodness! Worldly
   princes keep their treasures in the cabinets of their palaces, their
   arms in their arsenals, but the heavenly Prince keeps his treasures in
   his bosom, his weapons within his breast, and because his treasure is
   his goodness, as his weapons are his loves, his breast and bosom
   resemble those of a tender mother, who has her breasts like two
   cabinets rich in the treasures of sweet milk, armed with as many
   weapons to conquer the dear little baby as it makes its attacks in
   sucking.

   Nature surely lodges the breasts in the bosom to the end that, since
   the heat of the heart there concocts the milk, as the mother is the
   child's nurse, so her heart may be his foster-father, and the milk may
   be a food of love, better a hundred times than wine. Note, meantime,
   Theotimus, that the comparison of milk and wine seems so proper to the
   holy spouse that she is not content to have said once that the breasts
   of her beloved are better than wine, [227] but she repeats it thrice.
   Wine, Theotimus, is the milk of grapes, and milk is the wine of the
   breasts, and the sacred spouse says that her well-beloved is to her a
   cluster of grapes, but of Cyprian grapes, [228] that is, of an
   excellent odour. Moses said that the Israelites might drink the most
   pure and excellent blood of the grape, and Jacob describing to his son
   Juda the fertility of the portion which he should have in the land of
   promise, prophesied under this figure the true felicity of Christians,
   saying that the Saviour would wash his robe, that is, his holy Church,
   in the blood of the grape, [229] that is in his own blood. Now blood
   and milk are no more different than verjuice and wine, for as verjuice
   ripening by the sun's heat changes its colour, becomes a grateful wine,
   and is made good for food, so blood tempered by the heat of the heart
   takes a fair white colour, and becomes a food most suited for infants.

   Milk, which is a food provided by the heart and all of love, represents
   mystical science and theology, that is, the sweet relish which proceeds
   from the loving complacency taken by the spirit when it meditates on
   the perfections of the divine goodness. But wine signifies ordinary and
   acquired science, which is squeezed out by force of speculation under
   the press of divers arguments and discussions. Now the milk which our
   souls draw from the breasts of our Saviour's charity is incomparably
   better than the wine which we press out from human reasoning; for this
   milk flows from heavenly love, who prepares it for her children even
   before they have thought of it; it has a sweet and agreeable taste, and
   the odour thereof surpasses all perfumes; it makes the breath fresh and
   sweet as that of a sucking child; it gives joy without immoderation, it
   inebriates without stupefying, it does not excite the senses but
   elevates them (ne leve pas mais releve).

   When the holy Isaac embraced and kissed his dear child Jacob, he smelt
   the good odour of his garments, and at once, filled with an extreme
   pleasure, he said: Behold the smell of my son is as the smell of a
   plentiful field which the Lord hath blessed. [230] The garment and
   perfumes were Jacob's, but Isaac had the complacency and enjoyment of
   them. Ah! the soul which by love holds her Saviour in the arms of her
   affections, how deliciously does she smell the perfumes of the infinite
   perfections which are found in him, with what complacency does she say
   in herself: behold how the scent of my God is as the sweet smell of a
   flowery garden, ah! how precious are his breasts, spreading sovereign
   perfumes.

   So the soul of the great S. Augustine, stayed in suspense between the
   sacred contentment which he had in considering on the one side the
   mystery of his Master's birth, on the other the mystery of his passion,
   cried out, ravished in this complacency "I know not whither to turn my
   heart. On the one side the Mother's breast offers me its milk, on the
   other the life-giving wound of the Son gives me to drink of his blood."

     __________________________________________________________________

   [222] Prov. xv. 14.

   [223] John iv. 34.

   [224] Cant. v. 1.

   [225] Cant. i. 3.

   [226] Cant. i. 3.

   [227] Cant. i. 1.

   [228] Botrus Cypri. Our version wrongly translates this as a cluster of
   Cypress [Tr.]

   [229] Gen. xlix. 11.

   [230] Gen. xxvii. 27.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   THAT HOLY COMPLACENCY GIVES OUR HEART TO GOD, AND MAKES US FEEL A
   PERPETUAL DESIRE IN FRUITION.

   The love which we bear to God starts from the first complacency which
   our heart feels on first perceiving the divine goodness, when it begins
   to tend towards it. Now when by the exercise of love we augment and
   strengthen this first complacency, as we have explained in the
   preceding chapters, we then draw into our hearts the divine perfections
   and enjoy the divine goodness by rejoicing in it, practising the first
   part of the amorous contentment of love expressed by the sacred spouse,
   saying: My beloved to me. [231] But because this amorous complacency
   being in us who have it, ceases not to be in God in whom we have it, it
   gives us reciprocally to his divine goodness; so that by this holy love
   of complacency we enjoy the goods which are in God as though they were
   our own; but because the divine perfections are stronger than our
   spirit, entering into it they possess it reciprocally, insomuch that we
   not only say God is ours by this complacency but also that we are to
   Him. [232]

   The herb aproxis (as we have said elsewhere) has so great a
   correspondence with fire, that though at a distance from it, as soon as
   it sees it, it draws the flame and begins to burn, conceiving fire not
   so much from the heat as from the light of the fire presented to it.
   When then by this attraction it is united to the fire, if it could
   speak, might it not well say: my well-beloved fire is mine since I draw
   it to me and enjoy its flames, but I am also its, for though I drew it
   to me it reduced me into it as more strong and noble; it is my fire and
   I am its herb: I draw it and it sets me on fire. So our heart being
   brought into the presence of the divine goodness, and having drawn the
   perfections thereof by the complacency it takes in them, may truly say:
   God's goodness is all mine since I enjoy his excellences, and I again
   am wholly his, seeing that his delights possess me.

   By complacency our soul, like Gideon's fleece, is wholly filled with
   heavenly dew, and this dew belongs to the fleece because it falls upon
   it, and again the fleece is the dew's because it is steeped in it and
   receives virtue from it. Which belongs more to the other, the pearl to
   the oyster or the oyster to the pearl? The pearl is the oyster's
   because she drew it to her, but the oyster is the pearl's because it
   gives her worth and value. Complacency makes us possessors of God,
   drawing into us his perfections, but it makes us also possessed of God,
   applying and fastening us to his perfections.

   Now in this complacency we satiate our soul with delights in such a
   manner that we do not yet cease to desire to be satiated, and relishing
   the divine goodness we desire yet to relish it; while satiating
   ourselves we would still eat, as whilst eating we feel ourselves
   satisfied. The chief of the Apostles, having said in his first epistle
   that the ancient prophets had manifested the graces which were to
   abound amongst Christians, and amongst other things our Saviour's
   passion, and the glory which was to follow it (as well by the
   resurrection of his body as also by the exaltation of his name), in the
   end concludes that the very angels desire to behold the mysteries of
   the redemption in this divine Saviour: On whom, says he, the angels
   desire to look. [233] But how can this be understood, that the angels
   who see the Redeemer and in him all the mysteries of our salvation, do
   yet desire to see him? Theotimus, verily they see him continually, but
   with a view so agreeable and delightsome that the complacency they take
   in it satiates them without taking away their desire, and makes them
   desire without removing their satiety; the fruition is not lessened by
   desire, but perfected, as their desire is not cloyed but intensified by
   fruition.

   The fruition of a thing which always contents never lessens, but is
   renewed and flourishes incessantly; it is ever agreeable, ever
   desirable. The perpetual contentment of heavenly lovers produces a
   desire perpetually content, as their continual desire begets in them a
   contentment perpetually desired. Good which is finite in giving the
   possession ends the desire, and in giving the desire takes away the
   possession, being unable to be at once possessed and desired. But the
   infinite good makes desire reign in possession and possession in
   desire, finding a way to satiate desire by a holy presence, and yet to
   make it live by the greatness of its excellence, which nourishes in all
   those that possess it a desire always content and a content always full
   of desire.

   Consider, Theotimus, such as hold in their mouth the herb sciticum;
   according to report they are never hungry nor thirsty, it is so
   satisfying, and yet never lose their appetite, it nourishes them so
   deliciously. When our will meets God it reposes in him, taking in him a
   sovereign complacency, yet without staying the movement of her desire,
   for as she desires to love so she loves to desire, she has the desire
   of love and the love of desire. The repose of the heart consists not in
   immobility but in needing nothing, not in having no movement but in
   having no need to move.

   The damned are in eternal movement without any mixture of rest; we
   mortals who are yet in this pilgrimage have, now movement, now rest, in
   our affections; the Blessed ever have repose in their movements and
   movement in their repose; only God has repose without movement, because
   he is sovereignly a pure and substantial act. Now although according to
   the ordinary condition of this mortal life we have not repose in
   movement, yet still, when we practise the acts of holy love, we find
   repose in the movement of our affections, and movement in the repose of
   the complacency which we take in our well-beloved, receiving hereby a
   foretaste of the future felicity to which we aspire.

   If it be true that the chameleon lives on air, wheresoever he goes in
   the air he finds food, and though he move from one place to another, it
   is not to find wherewith to be filled, but to exercise himself within
   that element which is also his food, as fishes do in the sea. He who
   desires God while possessing him, does not desire him in order to seek
   him, but in order to exercise this affection within the very good which
   he enjoys; for the heart does not make this movement of desire as
   aiming at the enjoyment of a thing not had, since it is already had,
   but as dilating itself in the enjoyment which it has; not to obtain the
   good, but to recreate and please itself therein; not to gain the
   enjoyment of it but to take enjoyment in it. So we walk and move to go
   to some delicious garden, where, being arrived, we cease not to walk
   and exercise ourselves, not now to get there, but being there to walk
   and pass our time therein: we walk in order to go and enjoy the
   pleasantness of the garden, being there we walk to take our pleasure in
   the enjoyment of it. Seek ye the Lord and be strengthened, seek his
   face evermore. [234] We always seek him whom we always love, says the
   great S. Augustine: love seeks that which it has found, not to have it
   but to have it always.

   Finally, Theotimus, the soul which is in the exercise of the love of
   complacency cries continually in her sacred silence: It suffices me
   that God is God, that his goodness is infinite, that his perfection is
   immense; whether I die or whether I live matters little to me since my
   dear well-beloved lives eternally an all-triumphant life. Death itself
   cannot trouble a heart which knows that its sovereign love lives. It is
   sufficient for a heart that loves that he whom it loves more than
   itself is replenished with eternal happiness, seeing that it lives more
   in him whom it loves than in him whom it animates; yea, that it lives
   not itself, but its well-beloved lives in it.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [231] Cant. ii. 2.

   [232] Cant. ii. 2.

   [233] 1 Pet. i. 12.

   [234] Ps. civ. 4.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   OF THE LOVING CONDOLENCE BY WHICH THE COMPLACENCY OF LOVE IS STILL
   BETTER DECLARED.

   Compassion, condolence, commiseration, or pity, is no other thing than
   an affection which makes us share in the suffering and sorrow of him
   whom we love, drawing the misery which he endures into our heart;
   whence it is called misericorde, or, as it were, misere de coeur: as
   complacency draws into the lover's heart the pleasures and contentments
   of the thing beloved. It is love that works both effects, by the virtue
   it has of uniting the heart which loves to the thing loved, thus making
   the goods and the evils of friends common; and what happens in
   compassion much illustrates what regards complacency.

   Compassion takes its greatness from the love which produces it. Thus
   the condolence of mothers in the afflictions of their only children is
   great, as the Scripture often testifies. How great was the sorrow of
   Agar's heart upon the pains of her Ismael, whom she saw well-nigh
   perish with thirst in the desert! How much did David's soul commiserate
   the misery of his Absalom! Ah! do you not mark the motherly heart of
   the great Apostle, sick with the sick, burning with zeal for such as
   were scandalized, having a continual sorrow for the ruin of the Jews,
   and daily dying for his dear spiritual children. But especially
   consider how love draws all the pains, all the torments, travails,
   sufferings, griefs, wounds, passion, cross and very death of our
   Redeemer into his most sacred mother's heart. Alas! the same nails that
   crucified the body of this divine child, also crucified the soul of
   this all-sweet mother; she endured the same miseries with her son by
   commiseration, the same dolours by condolence, the same passions by
   compassion, and, in a word, the sword of death which transpierced the
   body of this best beloved Son, struck through the heart of this most
   loving mother, [235] whence she might well have said that he was to her
   as a bundle of myrrh between her breasts, [236] that is, in her bosom
   and in the midst of her heart. You see how Jacob, hearing the sad
   though false news of the death of his dear Joseph, is afflicted with
   it. Ah! said he, I will go down mourning into hell, that is to say, to
   Limbo into Abraham's bosom, to my son. [237]

   Condolence is also great according to the greatness of the sorrows
   which we see those we love suffering; for how little soever the
   friendship be, if the evils which we see endured be extreme, they cause
   in us great pity. This made Cæsar weep over Pompey, and the daughters
   of Jerusalem could not refrain from weeping over our Saviour, though
   the greater number of them were not greatly attached to him; as also
   the friends of Job, though wicked friends, made great lamentation in
   beholding the dreadful spectacle of his incomparable misery. And what a
   stroke of grief was it in the heart of Jacob to think that his dear
   child had died by a death so cruel as that of being devoured by a
   savage beast. But, besides all this, commiseration is much strengthened
   by the presence of the object which is in misery; this caused poor Agar
   to go away from her dying son, to disburden herself in some sort of the
   compassionate grief which she felt, saying: I will not see the boy die;
   [238] as on the contrary our Saviour weeps seeing the sepulchre of his
   well-beloved Lazarus and regarding his dear Jerusalem; and our good
   Jacob is beside himself with grief when he sees the bloody coat of his
   poor little Joseph.

   Now the same causes increase complacency. In proportion as a friend is
   more dear to us we take more pleasure in his contentment, and his good
   enters more deeply into our heart. If the good is excellent, our joy is
   also greater. But if we see our friend enjoying it, our rejoicing
   becomes extreme. When the good Jacob knew that his son lived,--O God!
   What joy! His spirit returned to him, he lived once more, he, so to
   speak, rose again from death. But what does this mean,--he revived or
   returned to life? Theotimus, spirits die not their own death but by
   sin, which separates them from God, their true supernatural life, yet
   they sometimes die another's death; and this happened to the good Jacob
   of whom we speak, for love, which draws into the heart of the lover the
   good and evil of the thing beloved, the one by complacency, the other
   by commiseration, drew the death of the beloved Joseph into the loving
   Jacob's heart, and, by a miracle impossible to any other power than
   love, the spirit of this good father was full of the death of him that
   was living and reigning, for affection having been deceived ran before
   the effect.

   But, on the contrary, as soon as he knew that his son was alive, love
   which had so long kept the supposed death of the son in the spirit of
   the good father, seeing that it had been deceived, speedily rejected
   this imaginary death, and made enter in its place the true life of the
   same son. Thus then he returned to a new life, because the life of his
   son entered into his heart by complacency, and animated him with an
   incomparable contentment: with which finding himself satisfied, and not
   esteeming any other pleasure in comparison of this: It is enough for
   me, said he, if Joseph my son be yet living. [239] But when with his
   own eyes he saw by experience the truth of the grandeur of this dear
   child in Gessen, falling upon his neck and embracing him, he wept
   saying: Now shall I die with joy because I have seen thy face and leave
   thee alive. [240] Ah! what a joy, Theotimus, and how excellently
   expressed by this old man! For what would he say by these words, now
   shall I die with joy because I have seen thy face, but that his content
   was so great, that it was able to render death itself joyful and
   agreeable, even death, which is the most grievous and horrible thing in
   the world. Tell me, I pray you, Theotimus, who has more sense of
   Joseph's good, he who enjoys it or Jacob who rejoices in it. Certainly,
   if good be not good but in respect of the content which it affords us,
   the father has as much as the son, yea more, for the son, together with
   the viceroy's dignity of which he is possessed, has consequently much
   care and many affairs, but the father enjoys by complacency, and purely
   possesses all that is good in this greatness and dignity of his son,
   without charge, care or trouble. Now shall I die with joy, says he. Ah!
   who does not see his contentment? If even death cannot trouble his joy,
   who can ever change it? If his content can live amidst the distresses
   of death, who can ever bereave him of it? Love is strong as death, and
   the joys of love surmount the sorrows of death, for death cannot kill
   but enlivens them; so that, as there is a fire which is marvellously
   kept alive in a fountain near Grenoble (as we know for certain and the
   great S. Augustine attests), so holy charity has strength to nourish
   her flames and consolations in the most grievous anguishes of death,
   and the waters of tribulations cannot quench her fire.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [235] Luke ii. 35.

   [236] Cant. i. 12.

   [237] Gen. xxxvii. 35.

   [238] Gen. xxi. 16.

   [239] Gen. xlv. 28.

   [240] Gen. xlvi. 30.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   OF THE CONDOLENCE AND COMPLACENCY OF LOVE IN THE PASSION OF OUR LORD.

   When I see my Saviour on the Mount of Olives with his soul sorrowful
   even unto death:--Ah! Lord Jesus, say I, what can have brought the
   sorrows of death into the soul of life except love, which, exciting
   commiseration, drew thereby our miseries into thy sovereign heart? Now
   a devout soul, seeing this abyss of heaviness and distress in this
   divine lover, how can she be without a holily loving sorrow? But
   considering, on the other hand, that all the afflictions of her
   well-beloved proceed from no imperfection or want of strength, but from
   the greatness of his dearest love, she cannot but melt away with a holy
   sorrowful love. So that she cries: I am black with sorrow by
   compassion, but beautiful with love by complacency; the anguish of my
   well-beloved has changed my colour: for how could a faithful lover
   behold such torments in him whom she loves more than her life, without
   swooning away and becoming all wan and wasted with grief. The tents of
   nomads, perpetually exposed to the injuries of weather and war, are
   almost always ragged and covered with dust; and I, ever exposed to the
   griefs which by condolence I receive from the immeasurable travails of
   my divine Saviour, I am all covered with distress, and rent with
   sorrow. But because the pains of him I love come from his love, in what
   measure they afflict me by compassion, they delight me by complacency;
   for how could a faithful lover not take an extreme content to see
   herself so loved by her heavenly spouse? Wherefore the beauty of love
   is in the ill-favour of sorrow. And if I wear mourning for the passion
   and death of my King, all swarthy and black with grief, I cease not to
   have an incomparable sweetness in seeing the excess of his love amid
   his travails and his sorrows; and the tents of Solomon, all embroidered
   and worked in an admirable variety of decorations, were never so lovely
   as I am content, and, consequently, sweet, amiable and agreeable, in
   the variety of the sentiments of love which I have amid those griefs.
   Love equalizes lovers; Ah! I see him, this dear lover--he is a fire of
   love burning in a thorny bush of sorrow, and I am the same: I am all
   inflamed with love amid the thorny bushes of my griefs, I am a lily
   among thorns. Ah! do not even look at the horrors of my poignant
   sorrows, but see the beauty of my agreeable love. Alas! he suffers
   insupportable pains, this well-beloved divine lover: it is this which
   grieves me and makes me faint with anguish; but he takes pleasure in
   suffering, he loves his torments, and dies with joy at dying with pain
   for me: wherefore as I am sorrowing over his pains, so I am all
   ravished with joy at his love; not only do I grieve with him, but I
   glorify myself in him.

   It was this love, Theotimus, which brought upon the seraphic S. Francis
   the stigmata, and upon the loving angelic S. Catharine of Siena the
   burning wounds of the Saviour, amorous complacency having sharpened the
   points of dolorous compassion; as honey makes more penetrating and
   sensible the bitterness of wormwood, whilst on the contrary the sweet
   smell of roses is intensified by the neighbourhood of garlic planted
   near the trees. For, in the same way, the loving complacency we have
   taken in the love of our Saviour makes the compassion we feel for his
   pains infinitely stronger: as reciprocally, passing back from the
   compassion for his pains to complacency in love, the pleasure of this
   is far more ardent and exalted. Then are practised pain in love and
   love in pain; then amorous condolence and dolorous complacency, as
   another Esau and another Jacob, struggling as to which shall make the
   greater effort, put the soul in incredible convulsions and agonies, and
   there takes place an ecstasy lovingly sorrowful and sorrowfully loving.
   So those great souls of S. Francis and S. Catharine felt matchless love
   in their pains, and incomparable pains in their love, when they were
   stigmatized, relishing that joyous love of suffering for a beloved one,
   which their Saviour exercised in the supreme degree on the tree of the
   cross. Thus is born the precious union of our heart with its God,
   which, like a mystical Benjamin, is the child of pain and joy both
   together.

   It cannot be declared, Theotimus, how strongly the Saviour desires to
   enter into our souls by this love of sorrowing complacency. Ah! says
   he, Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled; for my head
   is full of dew, and my locks of the drops of the night. [241] What is
   this dew, and what are the drops of the night but the afflictions and
   pains of his passion? Pearls, in sooth (as we have said often enough),
   are nothing but drops of dew, which the freshness of night rains over
   the face of the sea, received into the shells of oysters or
   pearl-mothers. Ah! this divine lover of the soul would say, I am laden
   with the pains and sweats of my passion, almost all of which passed
   either in the darkness of the night, or in the night of the darkness
   which the obscured sun made in the very brightness of its noon. Open
   then thy heart towards me as the pearl-mothers open their shells
   towards the sky, and I will shed upon thee the dew of my passion, which
   will be changed into pearls of consolation.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [241] Cant. v. 2.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   OF THE LOVE OF BENEVOLENCE WHICH WE EXERCISE TOWARDS OUR SAVIOUR BY WAY
   OF DESIRE.

   In the love which God exercises towards us he always begins by
   benevolence, willing and effecting all the good that is in us, in which
   afterwards he takes complacency. He made David according to his heart
   by benevolence, then he found him according to his heart by
   complacency. He first created the universe for man, and man in the
   universe, giving to each thing such a measure of goodness as was
   proportionable to it, out of his pure benevolence, then he approved all
   that he had done, finding that all was very good, and by complacency
   rested in his work.

   But, on the contrary, our love towards God begins from the complacency
   which we have in the sovereign goodness and infinite perfection which
   we know is in the Divinity, then we come to the exercise of
   benevolence; and as the complacency which God takes in his creatures is
   no other thing than a continuation of his benevolence towards them, so
   the benevolence which we bear towards God is nothing else but an
   approbation of and perseverance in the complacency we have in him.

   Now this love of benevolence towards God is practised in this sort. We
   cannot, with a true desire, wish any good to God, because his goodness
   is infinitely more perfect than we can either wish or think: desire is
   only of a future good, and no good is future to God, since all good is
   so present to him that the presence of good in his divine Majesty is
   nothing else but the Divinity itself. Not being able then to make any
   absolute desire for God, we make imaginary and conditional ones, in
   this manner: I have said to the Lord, thou art my God, who being full
   of thine own infinite goodness, hast no need of my goods, [242] nor of
   anything whatever, but if, by imagination of a thing impossible, I
   could think thou hadst need of anything, I would never cease to wish it
   thee, even with the loss of my life, of my being, and of all that is in
   the world. And if, being what thou art, and what thou canst not but
   still be, it were possible that thou couldst receive any increase of
   good,--O God! what a desire would I have that thou shouldst have it! I
   would desire, O eternal Lord! to see my heart converted into a wish,
   and my life into a sigh, to desire thee such a good! Ah! yet would I
   not for all this, O thou sacred well-beloved of my soul, desire to be
   able to wish any good to thy Majesty, yea I delight with all my heart
   in this supreme degree of goodness which thou hast, to which nothing
   can be added, either by desire or yet by thought. But if such a desire
   were possible, O infinite Divinity, O divine Infinity! my soul would be
   that desire and nothing else, so intensely would she be desirous to
   desire for thee that which she is infinitely pleased that she cannot
   desire; seeing that her powerlessness to make this desire proceeds from
   the infinite infinity of thy perfection, which outstrips all desire and
   all thought. Ah! O my God! how dearly I love the impossibility of being
   able to desire thee any good, since this comes from the
   incomprehensible immensity of thy abundance. That is so sovereignly
   infinite, that if there were an infinite desire it would be infinitely
   satiated by the infinity of thy goodness, which would convert it into
   an infinite complacency. This desire then, by imagination of
   impossibilities, may be sometimes profitably practised amidst great and
   extraordinary feelings and fervours. We are told that the great S.
   Augustine often made such, pouring out in an excess of love these
   words: "Ah! Lord, I am Augustine and thou art God, but still, if that,
   which neither is nor can be, were, that I were God and thou Augustine,
   I would, changing my condition with thee, become Augustine to the end
   that thou mightest be God!"

   It is yet another kind of benevolence towards God, when feeling we
   cannot exalt him in himself, we strive to do it in ourselves, that is,
   still more and more to increase the complacency we take in his
   goodness. And then, Theotimus, we desire not the complacency for the
   pleasure it yields us, but purely because this pleasure is in God. For
   as we desire not the compassion for the pain it brings to our heart,
   but because this sorrow unites and associates us to our well-beloved,
   who is in pain; so we do not love the complacency because it brings us
   pleasure, but because this pleasure is taken in union with the pleasure
   and good which is in God, to be more united to which, we would desire
   to exercise a complacency infinitely greater, in imitation of the most
   holy Queen and Mother of love, whose sacred soul continually magnified
   and exalted God. And that it might be known that this magnifying was
   made by the complacency which she took in the divine goodness, she
   declares; My spirit hath exultingly rejoiced in God my Saviour. [243]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [242] Ps. xv. 2.

   [243] Luke i. 47.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   HOW THE DESIRE TO EXALT AND MAGNIFY GOD SEPARATES US FROM INFERIOR
   PLEASURES, AND MAKES US ATTENTIVE TO THE DIVINE PERFECTIONS.

   The love of benevolence, then, causes in us a desire, more and more to
   increase the complacency which we take in the divine goodness; and to
   effect this increase, the soul sedulously deprives herself of all other
   pleasure that she may give herself more entirely to taking pleasure in
   God. A religious man asked the devout Brother Giles, one of the first
   and most holy companions of S. Francis, in what work he could be most
   agreeable to God: he answered by singing: "One to one," which he
   afterwards explained, saying, "Give ever your whole soul which is one,
   to God who is one." The soul pours itself out by pleasures, and the
   diversity of these dissipates and hinders her from being able to apply
   herself attentively to the pleasure which she ought to take in God. The
   glorious S. Paul reputed all things as dung and dirt in comparison of
   his Saviour. And the sacred spouse is wholly for her well-beloved only:
   My beloved to me and I to him. And if the soul that stands thus holily
   affected meet with creatures never so excellent, yea though they were
   angels, she makes no delay with them, save only what she needs for the
   help and furtherance of her desire. Tell me then, says she to them,
   tell me, I conjure you, have you seen him whom my soul loveth? [244]
   The glorious lover Magdalen met the angels at the sepulchre, who
   doubtless spoke to her angelically, that is most sweetly, but she, on
   the contrary, wholly ruthful, could take no content, either in their
   sweet words or in the glory of their garments, or in the all-heavenly
   grace of their deportment, or in the most delightsome beauty of their
   faces, but all steeped in tears: They have taken away my Lord, says
   she, and I know not where they have laid him: [245] and, turning about,
   she saw her sweet Saviour, but in form of a gardener, with whom her
   heart cannot be satisfied, for full of the love of the death of her
   Master, flowers she will have none, nor consequently gardeners; she has
   within her heart the cross, the nails, the thorns; she seeks her
   crucified. Ah! my dear sir gardener, says she, if perchance you have
   planted my well-beloved deceased Lord amongst your flowers, as a
   crushed and withered lily, tell me quickly and I, I will carry him
   away. But no sooner had he called her by her name, than, wholly melting
   with delight, O God! says she, my Master! Nothing can content her, nor
   angels' company delight her, no nor yet her very Saviour's, unless he
   appear in that form in which he had stolen her heart. The kings could
   not content themselves either in the beauty of Jerusalem or in the
   magnificence of Herod's court, or in the brightness of the star; their
   heart seeks the little cave and the little child of Bethlehem. The
   mother of fair loving and the spouse of most holy love cannot stay
   among their kinsfolks and acquaintance; they still walk on in grief,
   seeking after the only object of their delight. The desire to increase
   holy complacency cuts off all other pleasure, to the end that it may
   more actively practise that to which the divine benevolence excites it.

   Now still more to magnify this sovereign well-beloved, the soul goes
   ever seeking his face: that is, with an attention more and more careful
   and fervent, she keeps noting every particular of the beauties and
   perfections which are in him, making a continual progress in this sweet
   searching out of motives, which may perpetually urge her to a greater
   complacency in the incomprehensible goodness which she loves. So David
   in many of his heavenly psalms recites one by one the works and wonders
   of God, and the sacred spouse ranges, in her divine canticles, as a
   well-ranked army, all the perfections of her beloved, one after
   another, to provoke her soul to most holy complacency, thereby more
   highly to magnify his excellence, and also to subject all other spirits
   to the love of her beloved so dear.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [244] Cant. iii. 3.

   [245] John xx. 13.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   HOW HOLY BENEVOLENCE PRODUCES THE PRAISE OF THE DIVINE WELL-BELOVED.

   Honour, my dear Theotimus, is not in him who is honoured, but in him
   who honours: for how often it happens that he whom we honour knows
   nothing of it, nor has so much as thought about it. How often we praise
   such as know us not, or who are sleeping; and yet according to the
   common estimation of men, and their ordinary manner of conceiving, it
   seems that we do one some good when we do him honour, and that we give
   him much when we give him titles and praises, and we find no difficulty
   in saying that a man is rich in honour, glory, reputation, praise,
   though indeed we know that all this is outside the person who is
   honoured. He oftentimes receives no manner of profit therefrom,
   according to a saying ascribed to the great S. Augustine: O poor
   Aristotle, thou art being praised where thou art not, and where thou
   art, thou art being burned. What fruit, I pray you, do Cæsar and
   Alexander the Great reap from so many vain words which some vain souls
   employ in their praise?

   God being replenished with a goodness which surpasses all praise and
   honour, receives no advantage nor increase by all the benedictions
   which we give him. He is neither richer nor greater, nor more content
   or happy by them, for his happiness, his content, his greatness, and
   his riches neither are nor can be any other thing than the divine
   infinity of his goodness. At the same time, since, according to our
   ordinary estimation, honour is held one of the greatest effects of our
   benevolence towards others, and since by it we not only do not imply
   any indigence in those we honour, but rather protest that they abound
   in excellence, we therefore make use of this kind of benevolence
   towards God, who not only approves it, but exacts it, as suitable to
   our condition, and so proper to testify the respectful love we bear
   him, that he has ordained we should render and refer all honour and
   glory unto him.

   Thus then the soul who has taken a great complacency in God's infinite
   perfection, seeing that she cannot wish him any increase of goodness,
   because he has infinitely more than she can either wish or conceive,
   desires at least that his name may be blessed, exalted, praised,
   honoured and adored ever more and more. And beginning with her own
   heart, she ceases not to provoke it to this holy exercise, and, as a
   sacred bee, flies hither and thither amongst the flowers of the divine
   works and excellences, gathering from them a sweet variety of
   complacencies, from which she works up and composes the heavenly honey
   of benedictions, praises, and confessions of honour, by which, as far
   as she is able, she magnifies and glorifies the name of her
   well-beloved: in imitation of the great Psalmist, who having gone
   round, and as it were in spirit run over the wonders of the divine
   goodness, immolated on the altar of his heart the mystic victim of the
   utterances of his voice, by canticles and psalms of admiration and
   benediction: I have gone round, and have offered up in his tabernacle a
   sacrifice of jubilation: I will sing, and recite a psalm to the Lord.
   [246] But, Theotimus, this desire of praising God which holy
   benevolence excites in our hearts is insatiable, for the soul that is
   touched with it would wish to have infinite praises to bestow upon her
   well-beloved, because she finds his perfections more than infinite: so
   that, finding herself to fall far short of being able to satisfy her
   desire, she makes extreme efforts of affection to praise at least in
   some measure this goodness all worthy of praise, and these efforts of
   benevolence are marvellously augmented by complacency: for in
   proportion as the soul finds God good, relishing more and more his
   sweetness, and taking complacency in his infinite goodness, she would
   also raise higher the benedictions and praises she gives him. And
   again, as the soul grows warm in praising the incomprehensible
   sweetness of God, she enlarges and dilates the complacency she takes in
   him, and by this enlargement she more strongly excites herself to his
   praise. So that the affection of complacency and that of praise, by
   these reciprocal movements and mutual inclinations, advance one another
   with great and continual increase.

   So nightingales, according to Pliny, take such complacency in their
   songs, that, by reason of this complacency, for fifteen days and
   fifteen nights they never cease warbling, forcing themselves to sing
   better in emulous striving with one another; so that when they sing the
   best, they take a greater complacency, and this increase of complacency
   makes them force themselves to greater efforts of trilling, augmenting
   in such sort their complacency by their song and their song by their
   complacency, that it is often found that they die and their throats
   burst with their singing. Birds worthy the fair name of philomel, since
   they die thus, of and for the love of melody!

   O God! my Theotimus, how the soul ardently pressed with affection to
   praise her God, is touched with a dolour most delicious and a delight
   most dolorous, when after a thousand efforts of praise she comes so
   short. Alas! she would wish, this poor nightingale, to raise her
   accents ever higher, and perfect her melody, the better to sing the
   praises of her well-beloved. By how much more she praises, by so much
   more is she delighted in praising: and by how much greater her delight
   in praising is, by so much her pain is greater that she cannot yet more
   praise him; still, to find what content she can in this passion, she
   makes all sorts of efforts, and in the midst of them faints and fails,
   as it happened to the most glorious S. Francis, who amidst the pleasure
   he had in praising God and singing his canticles of love, shed a great
   abundance of tears, and often let fall through feeblessness, what he
   might be holding in his hands: being like a sacred nightingale all
   outspent, and often losing respiration through the effort of aspiration
   after the praises of him whom he could never praise sufficiently.

   But hear an agreeable similitude upon this subject, drawn from the name
   which this loving Saint gave his religious; for he called them Cicalas,
   by reason of the nightly praises they sang to God. Cicalas, Theotimus,
   as though they were nature's organs, have their breasts set with pipes;
   and to sing the better they live only on dew, which they take not by
   the mouth, for they have none, but suck it by a certain little tongue
   they have on the breast, by which they utter their cries with so much
   noise that they seem to be nothing but voice. Now this is the state of
   the sacred lover; for all the faculties of her soul are as so many
   pipes which she has in her breast, to repeat the canticles and praises
   of the well-beloved. Her devotion in the midst of all these is the
   tongue of her heart, according to S. Bernard, by which she receives the
   dew of the divine perfections, sucking and drawing them to her, as her
   food, by the most holy complacency which she takes in them; and by the
   same tongue of devotion she utters all her voices of prayer, praise,
   canticles, psalms, benedictions, according to the testimony of one of
   the most glorious spiritual cicalas that was ever heard, who sang thus:
   Bless the Lord, O my soul: and let all that is within me bless his holy
   name. [247] For is it not as though he had said, I am a mystical
   cicala, my soul, my spirit, my thoughts, all the faculties that are
   collected within me, are organ pipes. Let all these for ever bless the
   name and sound the praises of my God. I will bless the Lord at all
   times, his praise shall be always in my mouth. In the Lord shall my
   soul be praised; let the meek hear and rejoice. [248]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [246] Ps. xxvi. 6

   [247] Ps. cii. 1.

   [248] Ps. xxxiii. 1, 2.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   HOW BENEVOLENCE MAKES US CALL ALL CREATURES TO THE PRAISE OF GOD.

   The heart that is taken and pressed with a desire of praising the
   divine goodness more than it is able, after many endeavours goes
   oftentimes out of itself, to invite all creatures to help it in its
   design. As did the three children in the furnace, in that admirable
   canticle of benedictions, by which they excite all that is in heaven,
   on earth and under the earth, to render thanks to the eternal God, by
   blessing and praising him sovereignly. So the glorious Psalmist, quite
   mastered by holily disordered passion moving him to praise God, goes
   without order, leaping from heaven to earth, and from earth to heaven
   again, invoking angels, fishes, mountains, waters, dragons, birds,
   serpents, fire, hail, mists, assembling by his desires all
   creatures,--to the end that they all may conspire to lovingly magnify
   their Creator, some in their own persons celebrating the divine praise,
   others affording matter of praise by the wonders of their different
   properties, which manifest their Maker's power; so that this divine
   royal Psalmist, having composed a great number of psalms with this
   inscription: Praise God: after he had run through all creatures, holily
   inviting them to bless the divine Majesty, and gone over a great
   variety of means and instruments proper for the celebration of the
   praises of this eternal goodness, in the end, as falling down through
   lack of breath, closes his sacred song with this ejaculation: Let every
   spirit praise the Lord; [249] that is, let all that has life, neither
   live nor breathe but to bless its Creator, according to the invitation
   he had elsewhere given: O magnify the Lord with me; and let us extol
   his name together. [250]

   So the great S. Francis sang the canticle of the sun, and a hundred
   other excellent benedictions, to invoke creatures to help his heart,
   all fainting because he could not satisfy himself in the praises of the
   dear Saviour of his soul. So the heavenly spouse perceiving herself
   almost to faint away amid the violent efforts she made to bless and
   magnify the well-beloved king of her heart, Ah! she cried out to her
   companions, this divine spouse has led me by contemplation into his
   wine-cellar, making me taste the incomparable delights of the
   perfections of his excellence, and I have so steeped and holily
   inebriated myself in the holy complacency which I have taken in this
   abyss of beauty, that my soul languishes, wounded with a lovingly
   mortal desire, which urges me everlastingly to praise so exalted a
   goodness. Ah! come, I beseech you, to the assistance of my poor heart,
   which is upon the point of falling down dead. For pity sustain it, and
   stay me up with flowers; strengthen me and compass me about with
   apples, or I fall lifeless. Complacency draws the divine sweetnesses
   into her heart, which so ardently fills itself therewith that it is
   overcharged. But the love of benevolence makes our heart pass out of
   itself, and exhale itself in vapours of delicious perfumes, that is, in
   all kinds of holy praises. And yet not being able to produce as many as
   it would wish: Oh! it says, let all creatures come and contribute the
   flowers of their benedictions, the apples of their thanksgivings,
   honours and adorations, so that on every side we may smell odours
   poured out to the glory of him whose infinite sweetness surpasses all
   honour, and whom we can never right worthily magnify.

   It is this divine passion that brings forth so many discourses, sends
   through all hazards a Xavier, a Berzée, an Anthony, that multitude of
   Jesuits, Capuchins, and religious and ecclesiastics of all kinds, to
   the Indies, Japan, Marañon, that the holy name of Jesus may be known,
   acknowledged, and adored throughout those immense nations. It is this
   holy passion which causes so many books of piety to be written, so many
   churches, altars, pious houses to be erected, and in a word which makes
   many of God's servants watch, labour, and die amid the flames of zeal
   which consume and spend them.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [249] Ps. cl. 6.

   [250] Ps. xxxiii. 4.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   HOW THE DESIRE TO PRAISE GOD MAKES US ASPIRE TO HEAVEN.

   The amorous soul, perceiving that she cannot satiate the desire she has
   to praise her well-beloved while she lives in this world, and knowing
   that the praises which are given in heaven to the divine goodness are
   sung to an incomparably more delightful air,--O God! says she, how much
   to be praised are the praises which are poured forth by those blessed
   spirits before the throne of my heavenly king; how blessed are their
   blessings! O what a happiness is it to hear this melody of the most
   holy eternity, in which by the sweetest concurrence of dissimilar and
   varied tones, are made those admirable accords--all the parts mingling
   together with a continued sequence and marvellous linking of
   progressive movements--by which perpetual Alleluias do resound on every
   side.

   Voices which for their loudness are compared to thunders, to trumpets,
   to the noise of the waves of a troubled sea; yet voices which, for
   their incomparable softness and sweetness, are compared to the melody
   of harps, delicately and delightfully touched by hands of the most
   skilful players; and voices all of which unite to sing the joyous
   Paschal canticle: Alleluia, praise God, Amen, praise God. For know,
   Theotimus, that a voice goes out from the divine throne which ceases
   not to cry to the happy inhabitants of the glorious heavenly Jerusalem:
   Praise God, O you that are his servants, and you that fear him great
   and little: [251] at which all the innumerable multitude of
   saints,--the choirs of angels and the choirs of assembled men,--answer,
   singing with all their force: Alleluia, praise God. But what is this
   admirable voice, which issuing out from the divine throne entones the
   Alleluias of the elect, except most holy complacency, which being
   received into the heart, makes them feel the sweetness of the divine
   perfections, whereupon a loving benevolence, the source of heavenly
   praises, is bred in them? So that complacency coming from the throne,
   declares to the blessed the grandeurs of God, and benevolence excites
   them to pour out in their turn the perfumes of praise before the
   throne. Wherefore by way of answer they eternally sing: Alleluia, that
   is, praise God. The complacency comes from the throne into the heart,
   and benevolence goes from the heart to the throne.

   O how worthy of love is this temple, wholly resounding with praise! O
   what content have such as live in this sacred dwelling, where so many
   heavenly philomels and nightingales sing with this holy strife of love,
   the canticles of eternal delight!

   The heart, then, that in this world can neither sing nor hear the
   divine praises to its liking, enters into unutterable desires of being
   delivered from the bonds of this life to pass to the other, where the
   heavenly well-beloved is so perfectly praised: and these desires having
   taken possession of the heart, often become so strong and urgent in the
   breast of sacred lovers, that banishing all other desires they cause
   disgust of all earthly things, and render the soul languishing and
   lovesick: yea, sometimes the holy passion goes so far, that, God
   permitting, one dies of it.

   So that glorious and seraphical lover S. Francis, having been long torn
   with this strong affection for praising God, in the end, in his last
   years, after he had had assurance, by a special revelation, of his
   eternal salvation, could not contain his joy, but wasted daily, as if
   his life and soul had burnt away like incense, upon the fire of the
   ardent desires which he had to see his Master, incessantly to praise
   him: so that these ardours taking every day a fresh increase, his soul
   left his body by a passionate movement which he made towards heaven;
   for the divine Providence thought good that he should die pronouncing
   these sacred words: Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy
   name: the just wait for me, until thou reward me. [252] Behold,
   Theotimus, I beseech you, this soul, who, as a heavenly nightingale
   shut up in the cage of his body, in which he cannot at will sing the
   benedictions of his eternal love, knows that he could better trill and
   practise his delicious song if he could gain the air, to enjoy his
   liberty and the society of other philomels, amongst the gay and flowery
   hills of the land of the blessed; wherefore he cries: Alas! O Lord of
   my life, ah! by thy sweet goodness, deliver poor me from the cage of my
   body, free me from this little prison, to the end that released from
   this bondage I may fly to my dear companions, who expect me there above
   in heaven, to make me one of their choirs, and environ me with their
   joy. There, Lord, according my voice to theirs, I with them will make
   up a sweet harmony of delicious airs and words, singing, praising, and
   blessing thy mercy. This admirable Saint, as an orator who would end
   and conclude all he had said in some short sentence, put this happy
   ending to all his wishes and desires, whereof these last words were an
   abridgment; words to which he so firmly attached his soul, that in
   breathing them he breathed his last. My God, Theotimus, what a sweet
   and dear death was this! a happily loving death, a holily mortal love.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [251] Apoc. xix.

   [252] Ps. cxli. 8.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   HOW WE PRACTISE THE LOVE OF BENEVOLENCE IN THE PRAISES WHICH OUR
   SAVIOUR AND HIS MOTHER GIVE TO GOD.

   We mount then in this holy exercise from step to step, by the creatures
   which we invite to praise God, passing from the insensible to the
   reasonable and intellectual, and from the Church militant to the
   triumphant, in which we rise through the angels and the saints, till
   above them all we have found the most sacred virgin, who in a matchless
   air praises and magnifies the divinity more highly, holily and
   delightfully than all other creatures together can ever do.

   Being two years ago at Milan, whither the veneration of the recent
   memory of the great Archbishop S. Charles had drawn me, with some of
   our clergy, we heard in different churches many sorts of music: but in
   a monastery of women we heard a religious whose voice was so admirably
   delightful that she alone created an impression more agreeable, beyond
   comparison, than all the rest together, which though otherwise
   excellent, yet seemed to serve only to bring out and raise the
   perfection and grace of this unique voice. So, Theotimus, amongst all
   the choirs of men and all the choirs of angels, the most sacred
   virgin's clear voice is heard above all the rest, giving more praise to
   God, than do all the other creatures. And indeed the heavenly King in a
   particular manner invites her to sing: Show me thy face, says he, my
   well-beloved, let thy voice sound in my ears: for thy voice is sweet,
   and thy face comely. [253]

   But these praises which this mother of honour and fair love, together
   with all creatures, gives to the divinity, though excellent and
   admirable, come so infinitely short of the infinite merit of God's
   goodness, that they bear no proportion to it: and therefore, although
   they greatly please the sacred benevolence which the loving heart has
   for its well-beloved, yet do they not satiate it. Wherefore it goes
   forward and invites our Saviour to praise and glorify his eternal
   Father with all the benedictions which a Son's love can furnish him
   with. And then, Theotimus, the spirit comes unto a place of silence,
   for we can no longer do aught but wonder and admire. O what a canticle
   is this of the Son to his Father! O how fair this dear well-beloved is
   amongst all the children of men! O how sweet is his voice, as issuing
   from the lips upon which the fulness of grace was poured! All the
   others are perfumed, but he is perfume itself; the others are embalmed,
   but he is balm poured out; the Eternal receives others' praises, as
   scents of particular flowers, but perceiving the odour of the praises
   which our Saviour gives him, doubtless he cries out: Behold the smell
   of the praises of my Son is as the smell of a plentiful field, which I
   have blessed! [254] Yes, my dear Theotimus, all the benedictions which
   the Church militant and triumphant offers to God are angelic and human
   benedictions; for, although they are addressed to the Creator, yet they
   proceed from the creature; but those of the Son are divine, for they
   not only tend to God, as the others, but they flow from God: the
   Redeemer being true God, they are not only divine in respect of their
   end but also of their origin; divine, because they tend to God; divine,
   because they issue from God. To others God gives his inspiration and
   sufficient grace, for the utterance of praise; but that of the
   Redeemer, he, who is God, himself produces, and therefore it is
   infinite.

   He who, on a morning, having heard for some good space of time in the
   neighbouring woods the sweet chanting of finches, linnets, goldfinches,
   and such like little birds, should in the end hear a
   master-nightingale, which in perfect melody filled the air and ear with
   its admirable voice, doubtless would prefer this one woodland singer
   before the whole flock of the others. So, having heard all the praises
   which so many different sorts of creatures, in emulation of one
   another, render unanimously to their Creator, when at length we listen
   to the praise our Saviour gives, we find in it a certain infinity of
   merit, of worth, of sweetness, which surpasses all the hope and
   expectation of the heart: and the soul, as if awakened out of a deep
   sleep, is then instantly ravished with the extreme sweetness of such
   melody. Ah! I hear it: Oh! the voice, the voice of my well-beloved! the
   king-voice of all voices, a voice, in comparison with which all other
   voices are but a dumb and gloomy silence! See how this dear love
   springs forward, see how he comes leaping upon the highest mountains,
   transcending the hills: his voice is heard above the Seraphim, and all
   other creatures; he has the eyes of a roe to penetrate deeper than any
   other into the beauty of the sacred object which he desires to praise.
   He loves the melody of the glory and praise of his Father more than all
   others do, and therefore he takes his Father's praises and benedictions
   in a strain above them all. Ah! behold him, this divine love of the
   beloved, how he stands behind the wall of his humanity, making himself
   to be seen through the wounds of his body and the opening of his side,
   as by windows, and as by a lattice through which he looks out on us.
   [255]

   Yea, truly, Theotimus, divine love being seated upon our Saviour's
   Heart as upon his royal throne, beholds by the cleft of his pierced
   side all the hearts of the sons of men: for this Heart being the King
   of hearts keeps his eyes ever fixed upon hearts. But as those that look
   through a lattice see others clearly, and are but half-seen themselves,
   so the divine love of this Heart, or rather this Heart of divine love,
   continually sees our hearts clearly and regards them with the eyes of
   his love, but we do not see him, we only half-see him. For, O God! if
   we could see him as he is, we should die of love for him, so long as we
   are mortal; as he himself died for us while he was mortal, and as he
   would yet die, if he were not immortal. O when we hear this divine
   Heart, as it sings with a voice of infinite sweetness the canticle of
   praise to the divinity, what joy, Theotimus, what efforts of our hearts
   to spring up to heaven that we may ever hear it! And verily this dear
   friend of our hearts invites us to this. Arise, make haste, leave
   thyself and take thy flight towards me, my dove, my beautiful, unto
   this heavenly abode, where all is joy and nought is heard but praises
   and benedictions. All is flowers, all is sweetness and perfume; the
   turtles, the most silent of all birds, yet there take up their songs.
   Come, my well-beloved and all-dear; and to see me more clearly, come to
   the same windows by which I see thee: come and behold my heart in the
   clefts of the opening in my side, which was made when my body, like a
   house in ruins, was so pitifully broken down on the tree of the cross:
   come, show me thy face. Ah! I see it now without thy showing it, but
   then I shall see it, and thou shalt show it me, for thou shalt see that
   I see thee: let thy voice sound in my ears, for I would join it with
   mine: thus shall thy voice be sweet and thy face comely. O what a
   delight will it be to our hearts, when, our voices being tuned and
   accorded to our Saviour's, we shall take part in the infinite sweetness
   of the praises which the well-beloved Son gives to his eternal Father!

     __________________________________________________________________

   [253] Cant. ii. 14.

   [254] Gen. xxvii. 27.

   [255] Cant. ii.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   OF THE SOVEREIGN PRAISE WHICH GOD GIVES UNTO HIMSELF, AND HOW WE
   EXERCISE BENEVOLENCE IN IT.

   All our Saviour's human actions are of an infinite merit and value, by
   reason of the person who produces them, who is the same God with the
   Father and the Holy Ghost, yet they are not infinite by nature and
   essence. For as, being in a chamber, we receive not light according to
   the greatness of the brightness of the sun which sends it out, but
   according to the greatness of the window, by which it is
   communicated,--so our Saviour's human actions are not infinite, though
   indeed they are of infinite value; for although they are the actions of
   a divine person, yet they are not done according to the extent of his
   infinity, but according to the finite greatness of his humanity by
   which he does them. So that, as the human actions of our sweet Saviour
   are infinite compared to ours, so are they only finite in comparison
   with the essential infinity of the divinity. They are infinite in
   value, estimation and dignity, as proceeding from a person who is God;
   yet are they finite by nature and essence, as being done by God
   according to his human nature and substance, which is finite; and
   therefore the praises which are given by our Saviour, as he is man, not
   being in all respects infinite, cannot fully correspond to the infinite
   greatness of the divinity, to which they are directed.

   Wherefore after the first ravishment of admiration which seizes us,
   when we meet with a praise so glorious as is that which our Saviour
   renders to his Father, we fail not to recognise that the divinity is
   yet infinitely more deserving of praise than it can be praised, either
   by all creatures, or by the very humanity of the eternal Son.

   If a man were praising the sun for its light, the more he lifted
   himself towards it in praising it, the more praiseworthy he would find
   it, because he would still discover more and more brightness in it. And
   if, as is very probable, it be the beauty of this light which provokes
   larks to sing, it is no marvel that, as they fly more loftily, they
   sing more clearly, equally raising their voice and their flight, till
   such time as hardly being able to sing any more, they begin to fall in
   voice and body, bringing down by little and little their flight and
   their voice. So, Theotimus, while by benevolence we are rising towards
   the divinity to intone and hear his praises, we see ever that he is
   above all praise. And finally, we learn that he cannot be praised
   according to his worth save only by himself, who alone can worthily
   match his sovereign goodness with sovereign praise. Hereupon we cry
   out: "Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost:"
   and that every one may know that it is not the glory of created praises
   which we wish God by this ejaculation, but the essential and eternal
   glory that is in himself, by himself, of himself, and which is himself,
   we add: "As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world
   without end. Amen." As though we expressed a wish that God should be
   glorified for ever with the glory which he had before all creatures, in
   his infinite eternity and eternal infinity. For this we add the verse
   Gloria to every psalm and canticle, according to the ancient custom of
   the Eastern Church, which the great S. Jerome begged Pope S. Damasus to
   institute here in the Western; to protest, that all the praises of men
   and angels are too low to praise worthily the divine goodness, and
   that, to be worthily praised, itself must be its own glory, praise and
   benediction.

   O God! what complacency, what a joy to the soul who loves, when she has
   her desire satisfied, in seeing her beloved infinitely praise, bless
   and magnify himself! But from this complacency there springs a new
   desire of praise: for the soul would gladly praise this so worthy a
   praise given to God by himself, thanking him profoundly for it, and
   calling again all things to her assistance, to come and glorify the
   glory of God with her, to bless his infinite benedictions, and praise
   his eternal praises; so that by this return and repetition of praises
   upon praises, she engages herself, between complacency and benevolence,
   in a most happy labyrinth of love, being wholly lost in this immense
   sweetness, sovereignly praising the divinity in that it cannot be
   sufficiently praised but by itself. And though in the beginning, the
   amorous soul had conceived a certain desire of being able to praise God
   sufficiently; yet reflecting upon herself again, she protests that she
   would not wish to have power to praise him sufficiently, but remains in
   a most humble complacency, to perceive that the divine goodness is so
   infinitely praiseworthy, that it cannot be sufficiently praised save by
   its own infinity alone.

   And here the soul, ravished with admiration, sings the song of sacred
   silence: A hymn becometh thee, O Lord, in Sion, and a vow shall be paid
   to thee in Jerusalem. [256]

   For so the seraphim of Isaias, adoring and praising God, veiled their
   faces and feet, confessing therein their want of ability to contemplate
   or serve him properly; for our feet, by which we go, signify service:
   but still they fly with two wings in the sweet unrest of complacency
   and benevolence, their love reposing in that delightful unrest.

   Man's heart is never so much disquieted as when the motion by which it
   continually opens and shuts itself is hindered, never so quiet as when
   its motions are free; so that the heart's quiet consists in its motion.
   Now it is the same with the love of the Seraphim and seraphical men;
   for this has its repose in its continual movement of complacency, by
   which it draws God into itself, as if shutting itself, and of
   benevolence, by which it opens itself and throws itself entirely into
   God. This love then desires to behold the infinite wonders of God's
   goodness, yet it spreads its wings over its face, confessing that it
   cannot succeed in this: it would also present some worthy service, but
   it folds this desire over its feet, confessing that it has not power to
   perform it, nor does anything remain save the two wings of complacency
   and benevolence, by which it flies and darts towards God.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [256] Ps. lxiv. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK VI.

   OF THE

EXERCISES OF HOLY LOVE IN PRAYER.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   A DESCRIPTION OF MYSTICAL THEOLOGY, WHICH IS NO OTHER THING THAN
   PRAYER.

   We have two principal exercises of our love towards God, the one
   affective, the other effective, or, as S. Bernard calls it, active; by
   that we affect or love God and what he loves, by this we serve God and
   do what he ordains; that joins us to God's goodness, this makes us
   execute his will: the one fills us with complacency, benevolence,
   yearnings, desires, aspirations and spiritual ardours, causing us to
   practise the sacred infusions and minglings of our spirit with God's;
   the other establishes in us the solid resolution, the constancy of
   heart, and the inviolable obedience requisite to effect the ordinances
   of the divine will, and to suffer, accept, approve and embrace, all
   that comes from his good-pleasure; the one makes us pleased in God, the
   other makes us please God: by the one we conceive, by the other we
   bring forth: by the one we place God upon our heart, as a standard of
   love, around which all our affections are ranged, by the other we place
   him upon our arm, as a sword of love whereby we effect all the exploits
   of virtue.

   Now the first exercise consists principally in prayer; in which so many
   different interior movements take place that to express them all is
   impossible, not only by reason of their number, but also for their
   nature and quality, which being spiritual, they cannot but be very
   rarefied, and almost imperceptible to our understanding. The cleverest
   and best trained hounds are often at fault; they lose the strain and
   scent by the variety of sleights which the stag uses, who makes
   doubles, puts them on a wrong scent, and practises a thousand arts to
   escape the cry; and we oftentimes lose the scent and knowledge of our
   own heart in the infinite diversity of motions by which it turns
   itself, in so many ways and with such promptitude, that one cannot
   discern its track.

   God alone is he, who, by his infinite wisdom, sees, knows and
   penetrates all the turnings and windings of our hearts: he understands
   our thoughts from afar, he finds out our traces, doubles and turnings;
   his knowledge therein is admirable, surpassing our capacity and reach.
   Certainly if our spirits would turn back upon themselves by
   reflections, and by reconsiderations of their acts, we should enter
   into labyrinths from which we should find no outgate; and it would
   require an attention quite beyond our power, to think what our thoughts
   are, to consider our considerations, to observe all our spiritual
   observations, to discern that we discern, to remember that we
   remember,--these acts would be mazes from which we could not deliver
   ourselves. This treatise, then, is difficult, especially to one who is
   not a man of great prayer.

   We take not here the word prayer (oraison) only for the petition
   (priere) or demand for some good, poured out by the faithful before
   God, as S. Basil calls it, but as S. Bonaventure does, when he says
   that prayer, generally speaking; comprehends all the acts of
   contemplation; or as S. Gregory Nazianzen, who teaches that prayer is a
   conference or conversation of the soul with God; or again as S.
   Chrysostom, when he says that prayer is a discoursing with the divine
   Majesty; or finally as S. Augustine and S. Damascene, who term prayer
   an ascent or raising of the soul to God. And if prayer be a colloquy, a
   discourse or a conversation of the soul with God, by it then we speak
   to God, and he again speaks to us; we aspire to him and breathe in him,
   and he reciprocally inspires us and breathes upon us.

   But of what do we discourse in prayer? What is the subject of our
   conference? Theotimus, in it we speak of God only: for of what can love
   discourse and talk but of the well-beloved? And therefore prayer, and
   mystical theology, are one same thing. It is called theology, because,
   as speculative theology has God for its object, so this also treats
   only of God, yet with three differences: for,  1. The former treats of
   God as God, but the latter treats of him as sovereignly amiable; that
   is, the former regards the Divinity of the supreme goodness, and the
   latter the supreme goodness of the Divinity.  2. The speculative treats
   of God with men and amongst men, the mystical speaks of God with God,
   and in God himself.  3. The speculative tends to the knowledge of God,
   and the mystical to the love of God; that, therefore, makes its
   scholars wise, and learned, and theologians, but this makes its
   scholars fervent, and affectionate, lovers of God, a Philotheus or a
   Theophilus.

   Now it is called mystical, because its conversation is altogether
   secret, and there is nothing said in it between God and the soul save
   only from heart to heart, by a communication incommunicable to all but
   those who make it. Lovers' language is so peculiar to themselves that
   none but themselves understand it. I sleep, said the holy spouse, and
   my heart watcheth. Ah! hark! The voice of my beloved knocking. [257]
   Who would have guessed that this spouse being asleep could yet talk
   with her beloved? But where love reigns, the sound of exterior words is
   not necessary, nor the help of sense to entertain and to hear one
   another. In fine, prayer and mystical theology is nothing else but a
   conversation in which the soul amorously entertains herself with God
   concerning his most amiable goodness, to unite and join herself
   thereto.

   Prayer is a manna, for the infinity of delicious tastes and precious
   sweetnesses which it gives to such as use it, but it is hidden, [258]
   because it falls before the light of any science, in the mental
   solitude where the soul alone treats with her God alone. Who is she,
   might one say of her, that goeth up by the desert, as a pillar of smoke
   of aromatical spices, of myrrh, and frankincense, and of all the
   powders of the perfumer? [259] And it was the desire of secrecy that
   moved her to make this petition to her love: Come, my beloved, let us
   go forth into the field, let us abide in the villages. [260] For this
   reason the heavenly spouse is styled a turtle, a bird which is
   delighted in shady and solitary places, where she makes no other use of
   her song but for her only mate, either in life wooing him or after his
   death plaining him. For this reason, in the Canticles, the divine lover
   and the heavenly spouse describe their loves by a continual conversing
   together; and if their friends sometimes speak during their conference,
   it is but casually, and without interrupting their colloquy. Hence the
   Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa of Jesus found at first more profit in the
   mysteries where our Saviour was most alone; as in the Garden of Olives,
   and where he was awaiting the Samaritan woman, for she fancied that he
   being alone would more readily admit her into his company.

   Love desires secrecy; yea, though lovers may have nothing secret to
   say, yet they love to say it secretly: and this is partly, if I am not
   mistaken, because they would speak only for themselves, whereas when
   they speak out loud it seems no longer to be for themselves alone;
   partly because they do not say common things in a common manner, but
   with touches which are particular, and which manifest the special
   affection with which they speak. The language of love is common, as to
   the words, but in manner and pronunciation it is so special that none
   but lovers understand it. The name of a friend uttered in public is no
   great thing, but spoken apart, secretly in the ear, it imports wonders,
   and the more secretly it is spoken the more delightful is its
   signification. O God! what a difference there is between the language
   of the ancient lovers of the Divinity,--Ignatius, Cyprian, Chrysostom,
   Augustine, Hilary, Ephrem, Gregory, Bernard,--and that of less
   affectionate theologians! We use their very words, but with them the
   words were full of fire and of sweets of amorous perfumes; with us they
   are cold and have no scent at all.

   Love speaks not only by the tongue, but by the eyes, by sighs, and play
   of features; yea, silence and dumbness are words for it. My heart hath
   said to thee, my face hath sought thee: thy face, O Lord, will I still
   seek. [261] My eyes have failed for thy word, saying: When wilt thou
   comfort me? [262] Hear my prayer, O Lord, and my supplication: give ear
   to my tears. [263] Let not the apple of thy eye cease, [264] said the
   desolate heart of the inhabitants of Jerusalem to their own city. Do
   you mark, Theotimus, how the silence of afflicted lovers speaks by the
   apple of their eye, and by tears? Truly the chief exercise in mystical
   theology is to speak to God and to hear God speak in the bottom of the
   heart; and because this discourse passes in most secret aspirations and
   inspirations, we term it a silent conversing. Eyes speak to eyes, and
   heart to heart, and none understand what passes save the sacred lovers
   who speak.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [257] Cant. v. 2.

   [258] Apoc. ii. 17.

   [259] Cant. iii. 6.

   [260] Cant. vii. 11.

   [261] Ps. xxvi. 8.

   [262] Ps. cxviii. 82.

   [263] Ps. xxxviii. 13.

   [264] Jer. Lam. ii. 18.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   OF MEDITATION--THE FIRST DEGREE OF PRAYER OR MYSTICAL THEOLOGY.

   This word is much used in the holy Scriptures, and means simply an
   attentive and reiterated thought, proper to produce good or evil
   affections. In the first Psalm, the man is said to be blessed: Whose
   will is in the way of the Lord, and who in his law shall meditate day
   and night. But in the second Psalm: Why did the Gentiles rage, and the
   people meditate vain things? Meditation therefore is made as well for
   evil as for good. Yet whereas in the holy Scripture, the word
   meditation is ordinarily applied to the attention which we have to
   divine things to stir us up to love them, it has, as one might say,
   been canonized by the common consent of theologians, like the name,
   angel, and, zeal; as on the contrary the words, craft (dol), and,
   demons have been stigmatized: so that now when we say, meditation, we
   mean that which is holy, and that by which we begin mystical theology.

   Every meditation is a thought, but every thought is not meditation. For
   we have thoughts to which our mind is carried without any design or
   aim, by way of simple musing, as we see common flies flying from from
   one flower to another, without drawing anything from them. And be this
   kind of thought as attentive as it may, it can never bear the name of
   meditation, but should simply be called thought. Sometimes we consider
   a thing attentively to learn its causes, its effects, its qualities,
   and this thought is named study; in which the mind acts as locusts do,
   which promiscuously fly upon flowers and leaves, to eat them and
   nourish themselves therewith. But when we think of divine things, not
   to learn, but to make ourselves love them, this is called meditating,
   and this exercise, Meditation; in which our spirit, not as a fly for
   simple amusement, nor as a locust to eat and be filled, but as a sacred
   bee, moves over the flowers of holy mysteries, to extract from them the
   honey of divine love.

   Thus many persons are always dreaming, and engaged in unprofitable
   thoughts, almost without knowing what they are thinking about; and,
   which is noteworthy, they are only attentive to these thoughts
   inadvertently, and would wish not to have them; witness him who said:
   My thoughts are dissipated, tormenting my heart: [265] many also study,
   and by a most laborious occupation fill themselves with vanity, not
   being able to resist curiosity: but there are few who meditate to
   inflame their heart with holy heavenly love. In fine, thoughts and
   study may be upon any subject, but meditation, in our present sense,
   has reference only to those objects whose consideration tends to make
   us good and devout. So that meditation is no other thing than an
   attentive thought, voluntarily reiterated or entertained in the mind,
   to excite the will to holy and salutary affections and resolutions.

   The holy Word explains in a truly admirable manner, and by an excellent
   similitude, in what holy meditation consists. Ezechias wishing to
   express in his canticle the attentive consideration which he makes of
   his evil: I will cry, says he, like a young swallow, I will meditate
   like a dove. [266] For, my dear Theotimus, if ever you took notice of
   it, the young swallows open their beaks very wide in their chirping,
   and, on the contrary, doves, above all birds, make their murmuring with
   their beaks close shut up, keeping their voices in their throat and
   breast, nothing passing outward but a certain resonant, echo-like
   sound; and this little murmuring equally serves them to express their
   griefs and to declare their loves. Ezechias, then, to show that in his
   calamity he made many vocal prayers, says: I will cry like a young
   swallow, opening my mouth, to utter before God many lamentable cries;
   and to testify also that he made use of holy mental prayer, he adds: I
   will meditate like a dove, turning and doubling my thoughts within my
   heart by an attentive consideration, to excite myself to bless and
   praise the sovereign mercy of my God, who has brought me back from
   death's gate, taking compassion on my misery. So Isaias says: We shall
   roar all of us like bears, and shall lament, meditating like doves,
   [267] where the roaring of bears refers to the exclamations which we
   utter in vocal prayer, and the mourning of doves to holy meditation.
   But to make it appear that doves use their cooing on occasions not only
   of grief but also of love and joy, the sacred lover, describing the
   natural spring-time in order to express the beauties of the spiritual
   springtime, says: The voice of the turtle is heard in our land, [268]
   because in the spring the turtle begins to glow with love, which she
   testifies by her more frequent song; and presently after: My dove, shew
   me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears: for thy voice is sweet,
   and thy face comely. [269] He means, Theotimus, that the devout soul is
   very agreeable unto him when she presents herself before him, and
   meditates to inflame herself with holy spiritual love. So he who had
   said, I will meditate like a dove: putting his conception into other
   words: I will think over again for thee, said he, all my years in the
   bitterness of my soul. [270] For to meditate, and to think over again
   in order to move the affections, is the same thing. Hence Moses,
   exhorting the people to recall to mind the benefits received of God,
   adds this reason: That thou shouldst keep the commandments of the Lord
   thy God, and walk in his ways, and fear him. [271] And Our Lord himself
   gave this command to Josue: Let not the book of this law depart from
   thy mouth: but thou shalt meditate on it day and night, that thou
   mayest observe and do all things that are written in it. [272] What in
   one of the passages is expressed by the word, meditate, is declared in
   the other by, think over again, and to show that reiterated thought and
   meditation tend to move us to affections, resolutions and actions, it
   is said, as well in the one as the other passage, that we must think
   over again, and meditate in, the law, to observe and practise it. In
   this sense the apostle exhorts us thus: Think diligently upon him that
   endured such opposition from sinners against himself; that you be not
   wearied, fainting in your minds. [273] When he says think diligently,
   it is as though he said meditate. But why would he have us to meditate
   the holy passion? Not that we should become learned, but that we should
   become patient and constant in the way of heaven. O how have I loved
   thy law, O Lord! says David: It is my meditation all the day. [274] He
   meditates on the law because he loves it, and he loves it because he
   meditates on it.

   Meditation is the mystical rumination [275] required for not being
   unclean, to which one of the devout shepherdesses who followed the
   sacred Sulamitess invites us: for she assures us that holy writ is as a
   precious wine, worthy not only to be drunk, by pastors and doctors, but
   also to be diligently relished, and, so to speak, ruminated and turned
   over and over. Thy throat, says she (in which the holy words are
   formed) is like the best wine, worthy for my beloved to drink, and for
   his lips and his teeth to ruminate. [276] So the blessed Isaac, as a
   chaste and pure lamb, went forth into the field, the day being now well
   spent, to make his retirement, his conference, and his exercise of
   spirit with God, that is, to pray and to meditate. [277]

   The bee flies from flower to flower in the spring-time, not at hazard
   but of set purpose, not only to be recreated in the verdant diapering
   of the meadows, but to gather honey; which having found, she sucks it
   up, and loads herself with it; then carrying it to her hive, she treats
   it skilfully, separating from it the wax, of which she makes comb, to
   store the honey for the ensuing winter. Such is the devout soul in
   meditation. She passes from mystery to mystery, not at random, or only
   to solace herself in viewing the admirable beauty of those divine
   objects, but deliberately and of set purpose, to find out motives of
   love or of some heavenly affection; and having found them she draws
   them to her, she relishes them, she loads herself with them, and having
   brought them back and put them within her heart, she lays up what she
   sees most useful for her advancement, by finally making resolutions
   suitable for the time of temptation. Thus in the Canticle of Canticles
   the heavenly spouse, as a mystical bee, settles, now on the eyes, now
   on the lips, on the cheeks, on the hair of her beloved, to draw thence
   the sweetness of a thousand passions of love, noting in particular
   whatever she finds best for this. So that, inflamed with holy love, she
   speaks with him, she questions him, she listens to him, sighs, aspires,
   admires him, as he on his part fills her with delight, inspiring her,
   touching and opening her heart, and pouring into it brightness, lights
   and sweetnesses without end, but in so secret a manner that one may
   rightly say of this holy conversation of the soul with God, what the
   holy text says of God's with Moses: that Moses being alone upon the top
   of the mountain spoke to God, and God answered him. [278]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [265] Job xvii. 11.

   [266] Is. xxxviii. 14.

   [267] Is. lix. 11.

   [268] Cant. ii. 12.

   [269] Cant. ii. 14.

   [270] Is. xxxviii. 15.

   [271] Deut. viii. 6.

   [272] Josue i. 8.

   [273] Heb. xii. 3.

   [274] Ps. cxviii. 97.

   [275] Lev. xi. 3.

   [276] Cant. vii. 9.

   [277] Gen. xxiv. 63.

   [278] Ex. xix. 19.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   A DESCRIPTION OF CONTEMPLATION, AND OF THE FIRST DIFFERENCE THAT THERE
   IS BETWEEN IT AND MEDITATION.

   Theotimus, contemplation is no other thing than a loving, simple and
   permanent attention of the spirit to divine things; which you may
   easily understand by comparing meditation with it.

   Little bees are called nymphs or schadons until they make honey, and
   then they are called bees: so prayer is named Meditation until it has
   produced the honey of devotion, and then it is converted into
   Contemplation. For as the bees fly through their meadows, settling here
   and there and gathering honey, which having heaped together, they work
   in it for the pleasure they take in its sweetness, so we meditate to
   gather the love of God, but having gathered it we contemplate God, and
   are attentive to his goodness, by reason of the sweetness which love
   makes us find in it. The desire we have to obtain divine love makes us
   meditate, but love obtained makes us contemplate; for by love we find
   so agreeable a sweetness in the thing beloved, that we can never
   satiate our spirits in seeing and considering it.

   Behold, Theotimus, how the queen of Saba,--regarding the proofs of
   Solomon's wisdom in his answers, in the beauty of his house, in the
   magnificence of his table, in his servants' lodgings, in the order that
   his courtiers kept while executing their charges, in their apparel and
   behaviour, in the multitude of holocausts which were offered in the
   Temple,--was taken with an ardent love, which changed her meditation
   into contemplation, in which, being rapt out of herself, she uttered
   divers words of extreme satisfaction. The sight of so many wonders
   begot in her heart an exceeding love, and that love enkindled a new
   desire, to see still more and enjoy the presence of him whose they
   were; whence she cried: Blessed are thy servants who stand before thee
   always, and hear thy wisdom. [279] In like manner we sometimes begin to
   eat to get an appetite, but our appetite being excited, we continue
   eating to content it. And in the beginning we consider the goodness of
   God to excite our will to love him, but love being formed in our
   hearts, we consider the same goodness to content our love, which cannot
   be satiated in seeing continually what it loves. In conclusion,
   Meditation is the mother, and Contemplation the daughter of love, and
   for this reason I called Contemplation a loving attention, for children
   are named after their fathers, and not fathers after their children.

   It is true, Theotimus, that as Joseph of old was the crown and glory of
   his father, greatly increased his honours and contentment, and made him
   young in his old age, so contemplation crowns its father which is love,
   perfects him, and gives him the crown of excellence; for love having
   excited in us contemplative attention, that attention breeds
   reciprocally a greater and more fervent love, which at last is crowned
   with perfection when it enjoys what it loves. Love makes us take
   pleasure in the sight of our well-beloved, and the sight of our
   well-beloved makes us take pleasure in his divine love, so that by this
   mutual movement, from love to sight, and from sight to love, as love
   renders the beauty of the thing beloved more beautiful, so the sight of
   it makes love more loving and delightful. Love by an imperceptible
   power makes the beauty which we love appear more fair, and sight
   likewise refines love, to make it find beauty more amiable. Love urges
   the eyes continually to behold the beloved beauty more attentively, and
   sight forces the heart to love it ever more ardently.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [279] 3 Kings x. 8.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   THAT LOVE IN THIS LIFE TAKES ITS ORIGIN BUT NOT ITS EXCELLENCE FROM THE
   KNOWLEDGE OF GOD.

   But which has the more force, I pray you; love, to make us look upon
   the well-beloved, or the sight to make us love him? Knowledge,
   Theotimus, is required for the production of love, for we can never
   love what we do not know; and according as the attentive knowledge of
   good is augmented, love is also augmented, provided there is nothing to
   hinder its activity. Yet it happens often, that knowledge having
   produced holy love, love does not stay within the limits of the
   knowledge which is in the understanding, but goes forward and passes
   very far beyond it; so that in this life we are able to have more love
   than knowledge of God: whence the great S. Thomas assures us, that
   oftentimes the most simple women abound in devotion, and are ordinarily
   more capable of heavenly love than clever and learned men.

   The famous Abbot of S. Andrew's at Vercelli, master of S. Antony of
   Padua, in his commentaries upon S. Denis, often repeats that love
   penetrates where exterior knowledge cannot reach, and says that many
   bishops of old, though not very learned, have penetrated the mystery of
   the Trinity; admiring in this point his scholar S. Antony of Padua,
   who, without earthly knowledge, had so profound a grasp of mystical
   theology, that, like another S. John Baptist, one might have called him
   a burning and a shining light. The Blessed Brother Giles, one of the
   first companions of S. Francis, said one day to S. Bonaventure: "O how
   happy you learned men are, for you understand many things whereby you
   praise God, but what can we idiots do?" And S. Bonaventure replied:
   "The grace to be able to love God is sufficient." "Nay, but Father,"
   replied Brother Giles, "can an ignorant man love God as well as a
   learned?" "Yes," said S. Bonaventure, "and further, a poor simple woman
   may love God as much as a doctor of divinity." Then Brother Giles cried
   out in fervour: "O poor simple woman, love thy Saviour, and thou shall
   be as great as Brother Bonaventure." And upon this he remained for the
   space of three hours in a rapture.

   The will only perceives good by means of the understanding, but having
   once perceived it she has no more need of the understanding to practise
   love, for the force of pleasure which she feels, or expects to feel,
   from union with her object, draws her powerfully to the love and to the
   desire of enjoying it; so that the knowledge of good gives birth, but
   not measure, to love; as we see the knowledge of an injury starts
   anger, which, if not suppressed, almost always becomes greater than the
   subject deserves. The passions do not follow the knowledge which moves
   them, but very often, leaving this quite in the rear, they make towards
   their object without any measure or limit.

   Now this happens still more strongly in holy love, inasmuch as our will
   is not applied to it by a natural knowledge, but by the light of faith,
   which assuring us of the infinite goodness that is in God, gives us
   sufficient cause to love him with all our force. We dig the earth to
   find gold and silver, employing a present labour for a good which as
   yet is only hoped for; so that an uncertain knowledge sets us upon a
   present and certain labour, and as we more discover the vein of the
   mineral, we search and search more earnestly. Even a cold scent serves
   to move the hound to the game, so, dear Theotimus, a knowledge obscure
   and involved in clouds, like that of faith, most powerfully stirs our
   affection to love the goodness which it makes us perceive. O how true
   it is, according to S. Augustine's exclamation, that the unlearned bear
   away heaven, while many of the wise are swallowed up in hell!

   In your opinion, Theotimus, which of the two would love the light
   more--the one born blind, who might know all the discourses that
   philosophers make of it and the praises they give it, or the ploughman,
   who by a clear sight feels and realizes the agreeable splendour of the
   fair rising sun? The first has more knowledge of it, but the second
   more fruition, and that fruition produces a love far more lively and
   affective than a simple knowledge by reasons; for the experience of
   good makes it infinitely more agreeable than all the science which can
   be had of it. We begin our love by the knowledge which faith gives us
   of God's goodness, which afterwards we relish and taste by love; love
   whets our taste and our taste heightens our love, so that, as we see
   the waves, under the stress of winds, roll against one another and
   swell up, as if contact forced each to strive to outdo the rest, so the
   taste of good strengthens our love of it, and increases our relish for
   it, according to that oracle of the divine Wisdom: They that eat me,
   shall yet hunger: and they that drink me shall yet thirst. [280] Which
   of the two I pray you loved God more, the theologian Occam, held by
   some to be the most subtle of mortals, or S. Catharine of Genoa, an
   unlearned woman? He knew God better by science, she by experience; and
   her experience conducted her deep into seraphic love, while he with his
   knowledge remained far remote from this excellent perfection.

   We extremely love the sciences, even before we fully know them, says S.
   Thomas, from such confused and general knowledge as we may have of
   them: in the same way, it is the knowledge of God's goodness which
   makes our will begin to love, but as soon as it is set going, love
   increases of itself, by the pleasure which the will takes in being
   united to this sovereign good. Before children have tasted honey and
   sugar it is difficult to make them receive them into their mouth; but
   after they have tasted their sweetness, they love them much more than
   we wish, and eagerly seek to get them always.

   We must admit, however, that the will, attracted by the delectation
   which it takes in its object, is much more forcibly drawn to unite
   itself therewith, when the understanding on its side excellently
   proposes the goodness thereof; for it is then at once both drawn and
   pushed; pushed by knowledge, drawn by delight: so that knowledge is not
   of itself contrary, but very useful to devotion, and meeting together
   they marvellously assist one another; though it often happens through
   our misery that knowledge hinders the birth of devotion, because
   knowledge puffeth up and makes us proud, and pride, which is contrary
   to all virtue, is the total ruin of devotion. Without doubt, the
   eminent science of a Cyprian, an Augustine, a Hilary, a Chrysostom, a
   Basil, a Gregory, a Bonaventure, a Thomas,--has not only much
   recommended but greatly improved their devotion, as again their
   devotion has not only raised but eminently perfected their science.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [280] Ecclus. xxiv. 29.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   THE SECOND DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MEDITATION AND CONTEMPLATION.

   Meditation considers in detail, and as it were piece by piece, the
   objects calculated to move us, but contemplation takes a very simple
   and collected view of the object which it loves, and the consideration
   thus brought to a point causes a more lively and strong movement. One
   may behold the beauty of a rich crown two ways; either by looking upon
   all its ornaments, and all the precious stones of which it is composed,
   one after the other; or again, having considered all the particular
   parts, by beholding all the work of it together in one single and
   simple view. The first kind resembles meditation, in which, for
   example, we consider the effects of God's mercy to excite us to his
   love; but the second is like to contemplation, in which we consider
   with one single steady regard of our mind, all the variety of the same
   effects as a single beauty, composed of all these pieces, making up a
   single splendid brilliant. In meditating, we as it were count the
   divine perfections which we find in a mystery, but in contemplating we
   sum up their total. The companions of the sacred spouse had asked her
   what manner of one was her well-beloved, and she makes answer in an
   admirable description of all the parts of his perfect beauty: My
   beloved is white and ruddy, his head is as the finest gold, his locks
   as branches of palm trees, black as a raven, his eyes as doves, his
   cheeks are as beds of aromatical spices, set by the perfumers, his lips
   are as lilies dropping choice myrrh, his hands are turned and as of
   gold full of hyacinths, his legs as pillars of marble. Thus she goes
   on, meditating this sovereign beauty in detail, till at length she
   concludes by way of contemplation, putting all the beauties into one:
   His throat is most sweet, and he is all lovely: such is my beloved, and
   he is my friend. [281]

   Meditation reminds of one who smells a pink, a rose, rosemary, thyme,
   jessamine, orange-flower, separately one after the other; but
   contemplation is like to one smelling the perfumed water distilled from
   all those flowers: for the latter in one smell receives all the scents
   together, which the other had smelt divided and separated; and there is
   no doubt that this one scent alone, arising from the mingling together
   of all these scents, is more sweet and precious by itself than the
   scents of which it is composed, smelt separately one after another.
   Hence it is that the heavenly lover so prizes the being seen by his
   well-beloved with one of her eyes, and that her hair is so well plaited
   that it seems to be but one hair; for what is this beholding the spouse
   with one eye only, except the beholding him with a single attentive
   view without multiplying looks? And what is it to have her hair thus
   plaited together, except the not scattering her thoughts in the
   multiplicity of considerations. Oh! how happy are they who, having run
   over the multitude of motives which they have to love God, reducing all
   their looks to one only look, and all their thoughts to one conclusion,
   stay their mind in the unity of contemplation; after the example of S.
   Augustine or S. Bruno, pronouncing secretly in their soul in a
   permanent admiration: "O Goodness! Goodness! Goodness, ever old and
   ever new!" or after the example of the great S. Francis, who, kneeling
   in prayer passed the whole night in these words: "O God, thou art my
   God and my All!" repeating the same continually, as the Blessed Brother
   Bernard of Quintaval relates who had heard it with his own ears.

   Look at S. Bernard, Theotimus: he had meditated all the passion point
   by point; then of all the principal points put together he made a
   nosegay of loving grief, and putting it upon his breast to change his
   meditation into contemplation, he cried out: A bundle of myrrh is my
   beloved to me. [282]

   But again look with still greater devotion at the Creator of the world,
   how in the creation he first meditated the goodness of his works
   severally, one by one, as he saw them produced. He saw, says the
   Scripture, that the light was good, that the heavens and the earth were
   good, and so the herbs and plants, the sun, moon and stars, the living
   beasts, and in fine all the rest of creatures as he created them one
   after another: till at length, all the universe being accomplished, the
   divine meditation is changed as it were into contemplation: for viewing
   all the goodness that was in his works with one only look--He saw, says
   Moses, all the things that he had made, and they were very good. [283]
   The different parts considered severally by manner of meditation were
   good, but beheld in one only regard all together in form of
   contemplation, they were found very good: as many little brooks running
   together make a river, which carries greater freights than the
   multitude of the same brooks separately could do.

   After we have excited a great many different pious affections by the
   multitude of considerations of which meditation is composed, we in the
   end gather together the virtue of all these affections, from which, by
   the pouring together and mixture of their forces, springs a certain
   quintessence of affection, and of affection more active and powerful
   than all the affections whence it proceeds, because, though it be but
   one, yet it contains the virtue and property of all the others, and is
   called contemplative affection.

   So it is an opinion amongst divines that the angels who are higher in
   glory have a knowledge of God and creatures much more simple than the
   inferior have, and that the species or ideas by which they see are more
   universal, so that what the less perfect angels see by various species
   and various regards, the more perfect see by fewer species and fewer
   acts of regard. And the great S. Augustine, followed by S. Thomas, says
   that in heaven we shall not have these vicissitudes, varieties, changes
   and returns of thoughts and cogitations, which come and go, from object
   to object and from one thing to another, but with one sole thought we
   shall be able to attend to the diversity of many things, and receive
   the knowledge of them. The further water runs from its source, the more
   does it divide itself, and waste its waters, unless it is kept in with
   a great care; and perfections separate and divide themselves according
   as they are more remote from God their source; but approaching near him
   they are united, until they are lost in the abyss of that sole
   sovereign perfection, which is the necessary unity and the better part,
   which Magdalen chose and which shall not be taken away from her.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [281] Cant. v.

   [282] Cant. i. 12.

   [283] Gen. i. 31.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   THAT CONTEMPLATION IS MADE WITHOUT LABOUR, WHICH IS THE THIRD
   DIFFERENCE BETWEEN IT AND MEDITATION.

   Now the simple view of contemplation is performed in one of these three
   ways. Sometimes we regard only some one of God's perfections, as for
   example his infinite goodness, not thinking of his other attributes or
   virtues; like a bridegroom, who simply stays his eye upon the beautiful
   complexion of his bride, and by this means truly sees all her
   countenance, forasmuch as her colour is spread over almost all the
   parts of it, and who yet at the same time would not be attending to the
   features, expression, and other points of beauty: for, in like manner,
   sometimes the mind, considering the sovereign goodness of the divinity,
   although withal it sees in it justice, wisdom, power, yet is only
   attentive to its goodness, to which the simple view of its
   contemplation is addressed. Sometimes also we attentively behold in God
   several of his infinite perfections, yet with a simple view and without
   distinction, as he who with one glance, passing his eyes from the head
   to the feet of his richly dressed spouse, would attentively have seen
   all in general, and nothing in particular, not well discerning what
   neck-jewels, or gown, she wore, nor what countenance she bore, nor what
   expression she had, nor what her eyes were saying, but only that all
   was fair and agreeable: for so in contemplation we often cast one
   single regard of simple contemplation over several divine greatnesses
   and perfections together, and we could not describe anything in
   particular, but only say that all is perfectly good and lovely. And
   finally we at other times consider neither many nor only one of the
   divine perfections, but only some divine action or work, to which we
   are attentive; as for example to the act of mercy by which God pardons
   sins, or the act of creation, or the resurrection of Lazarus, or the
   conversion of S. Paul: as a bridegroom who might not regard the eyes,
   but only the sweetness of the looks which his spouse casts upon him,
   nor take notice of her mouth, but only of the sweetness of the words
   uttered by it. And here, Theotimus, the soul makes a certain outburst
   of love, not only upon the actions she considers, but upon him from
   whom they proceed: Thou art good; and in thy goodness teach me thy
   justifications. [284] His throat (that is, the word which comes from
   it) is most sweet, and he is all lovely. [285] Ah! How sweet are thy
   words to my palate, more than honey to my mouth; [286] or with S.
   Thomas: My Lord and my God; and with S. Magdalen: "Rabboni, Ah! my
   master!"

   But take which of these three ways you will, contemplation has still
   this excellency that it is made with delight, for it supposes that we
   have found God and his holy love, that we enjoy it and delight in it,
   saying: I found him whom my soul loveth: I held him: and I will not let
   him go. [287] In which it differs from meditation, which almost always
   is performed with difficulty, labour and reasoning; our mind passing in
   it from consideration to consideration, searching in many places either
   the well-beloved of her love, or the love of her well-beloved. Jacob
   labours in meditation to obtain Rachel, but in contemplation he
   rejoices with her, forgetting all his labour. The divine lover like a
   shepherd, and indeed he is one, prepared a sumptuous banquet according
   to the country fashion for his sacred spouse, which he so described
   that mystically it represented all the mysteries of man's redemption. I
   am come into my garden, said he, O my sister, my spouse, I have
   gathered my myrrh, with aromatical spices; I have eaten the honey-comb
   with my honey, I have drunk my wine with my milk; eat, O friends, and
   drink, and be inebriated, my dearly beloved! [288] Theotimus, Ah! when
   was it, I pray you, that our Saviour came into his garden, if not when
   he came into his mother's purest, humblest and sweetest womb,
   replenished with all the flourishing plants of holy virtues? And what
   is meant by our Saviour's gathering his myrrh with his perfumes, except
   that he joined suffering to suffering until death, even the death of
   the cross, heaping by that means merit upon merit and treasures upon
   treasures, to enrich his spiritual children? And how did he eat his
   honey-comb with his honey, but when he lived a new life, reuniting his
   soul, more sweet than honey, to his pierced and wounded body, with more
   holes than a honeycomb? And when ascending into heaven he took
   possession of all the surroundings and dependencies of his divine
   glory, what other thing did he if not mix the exhilarating wine of the
   essential glory of his soul, with the delightful milk of the perfect
   felicity of his body, in a more excellent manner than hitherto he had
   done?

   Now in all these divine mysteries, which contain all others, there is
   food provided for dear friends to eat and drink well, and for dearest
   friends to be inebriated. Some eat and drink, but they eat more than
   they drink and so are not inebriated: the others eat and drink, but
   drink more than they eat, and those are they who are inebriated. Now to
   eat is to meditate, for in meditating a man doth chew, turning his
   spiritual meat hither and thither between the teeth of consideration,
   to bruise, break and digest it, which is not done without some labour.
   To drink is to contemplate, which we do without labour or difficulty,
   yea with pleasure and tranquillity. But to be inebriated is to
   contemplate so frequently and so ardently as to be quite out of self to
   be wholly in God. O holy and sacred inebriation, which, contrarily to
   corporal inebriation, does not alienate us from the spiritual sense,
   but from the corporal senses; does not dull or besot us, but
   angelicizes and in a sort deifies us; putting us out of ourselves, not
   to abase us and rank us with beasts, as terrestrial drunkenness does,
   but to raise us above ourselves and range us with angels, so that we
   may live more in God than in ourselves, being attentive to and occupied
   in seeing his beauty and being united to his goodness by love!

   Now whereas to attain unto contemplation we stand ordinarily in need of
   hearing the word of God, of having spiritual discourse and conference
   with others, like the ancient anchorites, of reading, praying,
   meditating, singing canticles, conceiving good thoughts,--for this
   reason, holy contemplation being the end and aim of all these
   exercises, they are all reduced to it, and those who practise them are
   called contemplatives, as also the occupation itself is called a
   contemplative life. This is on account of the action of our
   understanding, by which we regard the truth of the divine beauty and
   goodness with an amorous attention, that is, with a love which makes us
   attentive, or, with an attention which proceeds from love, and augments
   the love which we have for the infinite sweetness of our Lord.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [284] Ps. cxviii. 68.

   [285] Cant. v. 16.

   [286] Ps. cxviii. 103.

   [287] Cant. iii. 4.

   [288] Cant. v. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   OF THE LOVING RECOLLECTION OF THE SOUL IN CONTEMPLATION.

   I speak not here, Theotimus, of the recollection by which such as are
   about to pray, place themselves in God's presence, entering into
   themselves, and as one would say bringing their soul into their hearts,
   there to speak with God; for this recollection is made by love's
   command, which, provoking us to prayer, moves us to take this means of
   doing it well, so that we ourselves make this withdrawing of our
   spirit. But the recollection of which I mean to speak is not made by
   love's command but by love itself, that is, we do not make it by free
   choice, for it is not in our power to have it when we please, and does
   not depend on our care, but God at his pleasure works it in us by his
   most holy grace. The Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa of Jesus says: "He who
   has written that the prayer of recollection is made as when a hedgehog
   or tortoise draws itself within itself, said well, saying that these
   beasts draw themselves in when they please, whereas recollection is not
   in our will, but comes to us only when it pleases God to do us this
   grace."

   Now it comes thus. Nothing is so natural to good as to draw and unite
   unto itself such things as are sensible of it; as our souls do, which
   continually draw towards them and give themselves to their treasure,
   that is, what they love. It happens then sometimes that our Lord
   imperceptibly infuses into the depths of our hearts a certain agreeable
   sweetness, which testifies his presence, and then the powers, yea the
   very exterior senses of the soul, by a certain secret contentment, turn
   in towards that most interior part where is the most amiable and
   dearest spouse. For as a new swarm of bees when it would take flight
   and change country, is recalled by a sound softly made on metal basins,
   by the smell of honied wine, or by the scent of some odoriferous herbs,
   being stayed by the attraction of these agreeable things, and entering
   into the hive prepared for it:--so our Saviour,--pronouncing some
   secret word of his love, or pouring out the odour of the wine of his
   dilection, more delicious than honey, or letting stream the perfumes of
   his garments, that is, feelings of his heavenly consolations in our
   hearts, and thereby making them perceive his most welcome
   presence,--draws unto him all the faculties of our soul, which gather
   about him and stay themselves in him as in their most desired object.
   And as he who should cast a piece of loadstone amongst a number of
   needles would instantly see them turn all their points towards their
   well-beloved adamant, and join themselves to it, so when our Saviour
   makes his most delicious presence to be felt in the midst of our
   hearts, all our faculties turn their points in that direction, to be
   united to this incomparable sweetness.

   O God! says then the soul in imitation of S. Augustine, whither was I
   wandering to seek thee! O most infinite beauty! I sought thee without,
   and thou wast in the midst of my heart. All Magdalen's affections, and
   all her thoughts, were scattered about the sepulchre of her Saviour,
   whom she went seeking hither and thither, and though she had found him,
   and he spoke to her, yet leaves she them dispersed, because she does
   not perceive his presence; but as soon as he had called her by her
   name, see how she gathers herself together and entirely attaches
   herself to his feet: one only word puts her into recollection.

   Propose to yourself, Theotimus, the most holy Virgin, our Lady, when
   she had conceived the Son of God, her only love. The soul of that
   well-beloved mother did wholly collect itself about that well-beloved
   child, and because this heavenly dear one was harboured in her sacred
   womb, all the faculties of her soul gathered themselves within her, as
   holy bees into their hive, wherein their honey is; and by how much the
   divine greatness was, so to speak, straitened and contracted within her
   virginal womb, by so much her soul did more increase and magnify the
   praises of that infinite loving-kindness, and her spirit within her
   body leapt with joy (as S. John in his mother's womb) in presence of
   her God, whom she felt. She launched not her affections out of herself,
   since her treasure, her loves and her delights were in the midst of her
   sacred womb. Now the same contentment may be practised by imitation,
   among those who, having communicated, feel by the certainty of faith
   that which, not flesh and blood, but the Heavenly Father has revealed,
   that their Saviour is body and soul present, with a most real presence,
   to their body and to their soul, by this most adorable sacrament. For
   as the pearl-mother, having received the drops of the fresh dew of the
   morning, closes up, not only to keep them pure from all possible
   mixture with the water of the sea, but also for the pleasure she feels
   in relishing the agreeable freshness of this heaven-sent germ:--so does
   it happen to many holy and devout of the faithful, that having received
   the Divine Sacrament which contains the dew of all heavenly
   benedictions, their heart closes over It, and all their faculties
   collect themselves together, not only to adore this sovereign King, but
   for the spiritual consolation and refreshment, beyond belief, which
   they receive in feeling by faith this divine germ of immortality within
   them. Where you will carefully note, Theotimus, that to say all in a
   word this recollection is wholly made by love, which perceiving the
   presence of the well-beloved by the attractions he spreads in the midst
   of the heart, gathers and carries all the soul towards it, by a most
   agreeable inclination, a most sweet turning, and a delicious bending of
   all the faculties towards this well-beloved, who attracts them unto him
   by the force of his sweetness, with which he ties and draws hearts, as
   bodies are drawn by material ropes and bands.

   But this sweet recollection of our soul in itself is not only made by
   the sentiment of God's presence in the midst of our heart, but also by
   any means which puts us in this sacred presence. It happens sometimes
   that all our interior powers close and withdraw themselves into
   themselves by the extreme reverence and sweet fear which seizes upon us
   in the consideration of his sovereign Majesty who is present with us
   and beholds us; just as, however distracted we may be, if the Pope or
   some great prince should appear we return to ourselves, and bring back
   our thoughts upon ourselves, to keep ourselves in good behaviour and
   respect. The blue lily, otherwise called the flag, is said to draw its
   flowers together at the sight of the sun, because they close and unite
   while the sun shines, but in its absence they spread out and keep open
   all the night. The like happens in this kind of recollection which we
   speak of; for at the simple presence of God, or the simple feeling that
   he sees us, either from heaven or from any other place outside us (even
   if we are not remembering the other sort of presence by which he is in
   us), our powers and faculties assemble and gather together within us,
   out of respect to his divine Majesty, which love makes us fear with a
   fear of honour and respect.

   Indeed I know a soul who, as soon as she heard mention of some mystery
   or sentence which put her a little more expressly in mind of the
   presence of God than usual, whether in confession or private
   conference, would so deeply enter into herself that she could hardly
   recover herself to speak and make answer, so that outwardly she
   remained as one deprived of life, and with all her senses benumbed,
   till her spouse permitted her to quit that state: which was sometimes
   pretty soon, and other times more slowly.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   OF THE REPOSE OF A SOUL RECOLLECTED IN HER WELL-BELOVED.

   The soul, then, being thus inwardly recollected in God or before God,
   now and then becomes so sweetly attentive to the goodness of her
   well-beloved, that her attention seems not to her to be attention, so
   purely and delicately is it exercised: as it happens to certain rivers,
   which glide so calmly and smoothly that beholders, and such as float
   upon them, seem neither to see nor feel any motion, because the waters
   are not seen to ripple or flow at all. And it is this admirable repose
   of the soul which the Blessed Virgin (S.) Teresa of Jesus names prayer
   of quiet, not far different from that which she also calls the sleep of
   the powers, at least if I understand her right.

   Even human lovers are content, sometimes, with being near or within
   sight of the person they love without speaking to her, and without even
   distinctly thinking of her or her perfections, satiated, as it were,
   and satisfied to relish this dear presence, not by any reflection they
   make upon it, but by a certain gratification and repose which their
   spirit takes in it. A bundle of myrrh is my beloved to me, he shall
   abide between my breasts. My beloved to me, and I to him, who feedeth
   among the lilies, till the day break, and the shadows retire. Shew me,
   O thou whom my soul loveth, where thou feedest, where thou liest in the
   mid-day. [289] Do you see, Theotimus, how the holy Sulamitess is
   contented with knowing that her well-beloved is with her, whether in
   her bosom, or in her gardens, or elsewhere, so she know where he is.
   And indeed she is the Sulamitess, wholly peaceable, calm, and at rest.

   Now this repose sometimes goes so deep in its tranquillity, that the
   whole soul and all its powers fall as it were asleep, and make no
   movement nor action whatever, except the will alone, and even this does
   no more than receive the delight and satisfaction which the presence of
   the well-beloved affords. And what is yet more admirable is, that the
   will does not even perceive the delight and contentment which she
   receives, enjoying it insensibly, being not mindful of herself but of
   him whose presence gives her this pleasure, as happens frequently when,
   surprised by a light slumber, we only hear indistinctly what our
   friends are saying around us, or feel their caresses almost
   imperceptibly, not feeling that we feel.

   However, the soul who in this sweet repose enjoys this delicate sense
   of the divine presence, though she is not conscious of the enjoyment,
   yet clearly shows how dear and precious this happiness is unto her, if
   one offer to deprive her of it or divert her from it; for then the poor
   soul complains, cries out, yea sometimes weeps, as a little child
   awakened before it has taken its full sleep, who, by the sorrow it
   feels in being awakened, clearly shows the content it had in sleeping.
   Hereupon the heavenly shepherd adjures the daughters of Jerusalem, by
   the roes and harts of the fields, not to make the beloved awake until
   she please, [290] that is, to let her awake of herself. No, Theotimus,
   a soul thus recollected in her God would not change her repose for the
   greatest goods in the world.

   Such, or little different from it, was the quiet of most holy Magdalen,
   when sitting at her Master's feet she heard his holy word. Behold her,
   I beseech you, Theotimus; she is in a profound tranquillity, she says
   not a word, she weeps not, she sobs not, she sighs not, she stirs not,
   she prays not. Martha, full of business passes and repasses through the
   hall: Mary notices her not. And what then is she doing? She is doing
   nothing, but only hearkening. And what does this mean--she hearkens? It
   means that she is there as a vessel of honour, to receive drop by drop
   the myrrh of sweetness which the lips of her well-beloved distilled
   into her heart; and this divine lover, jealous of this love-sleep and
   repose of this well-beloved, chid Martha for wanting to awaken her:
   Martha, Martha, thou art careful, and art troubled about many things.
   But one thing is necessary, Mary hath chosen the best part, which shall
   not be taken away from her. [291] But what was Mary's portion or part?
   To remain in peace, repose, and quiet, near unto her sweet Jesus.

   The well-beloved S. John is ordinarily painted, in the Last Supper, not
   only lying but even sleeping in his Master's bosom, because he was
   seated after the fashion of the Easterns (Levantins), so that his head
   was towards his dear lover's breast; and as he slept no corporal sleep
   there,--what likelihood of that?--so I make no question but that,
   finding himself so near the breasts of the eternal sweetness, he took a
   profound mystical sleep, like a child of love which locked to its
   mother's breast sucks while sleeping. Oh! what a delight it was to this
   Benjamin, child of his Saviour's joy, to sleep in the arms of that
   father, who the day after, recommended him, as the Benoni, child of
   pain, to his mother's sweet breasts. Nothing is more desirable to the
   little child, whether he wake or sleep, than his father's bosom and
   mother's breast.

   Wherefore, when you shall find yourself in this simple and pure filial
   confidence with our Lord, stay there, my dear Theotimus, without moving
   yourself to make sensible acts, either of the understanding or of the
   will; for this simple love of confidence, and this love-sleep of your
   spirit in the arms of the Saviour, contains by excellence all that you
   go seeking hither and thither to satisfy your taste: it is better to
   sleep upon this sacred breast than to watch elsewhere, wherever it be.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [289] Cant. i.

   [290] Cant. ii. 7.

   [291] Luke x. 41, 42.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   HOW THIS SACRED REPOSE IS PRACTISED.

   Have you never noted, Theotimus, with what ardour little children
   sometimes cleave to their mother's breast when hungry? You will see
   them, with a deep soft murmur, hold and squeeze it with their mouths,
   sucking so eagerly that they even put their mother to pain; but after
   the freshness of the milk has in some sort allayed the urgent heat of
   their little frame, and the agreeable vapours which it sends to the
   brain begin to lull them to sleep, Theotimus, you will see them softly
   shut their little eyes, and little by little give way to sleep; yet
   without letting go the breast, upon which they make no action saving a
   slow and almost insensible movement of the lips, whereby they
   continually draw the milk which they swallow imperceptibly. This they
   do without thinking of it, yet not without pleasure; for if one draw
   the teat from them before they fall sound asleep, they awake and weep
   bitterly, testifying by the sorrow which they show in the privation
   that their content was great in the possession. Now it fares in like
   manner with the soul who is in rest and quiet before God: for she sucks
   in a manner insensibly the delights of his presence, without any
   discourse, operation or motion of any of her faculties, save only the
   highest part of the will, which she moves softly and almost
   imperceptibly, as the mouth by which enter the delight and insensible
   satiety she finds in the fruition of the divine presence. But if one
   trouble this poor little babe, or offer to take from it its treasure
   because it seems to sleep, it will plainly show then that though it
   sleep to all other things yet not to that; for it perceives the trouble
   of this separation and grieves over it, showing thereby the pleasure
   which it took, though without thinking of it, in the good which it
   possessed. The Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa having written that she found
   this a fit similitude, I have thought good to make use of it.

   And tell me, Theotimus, why should the soul recollected in its God be
   disquieted? Has she not reason to be at peace and to remain in repose?
   For indeed what should she seek? She has found him whom she sought,
   what remains now for her but to say: I found him whom my soul loveth: I
   held him and I will not let him go. [292] She has no need to trouble
   herself with the discourse of the understanding, for she sees her
   spouse present with so sweet a view that reasonings would be to her
   unprofitable and superfluous. And even if she do not see him by the
   understanding she cares not, being content to feel his presence by the
   delight and satisfaction which the will receives from it. Ah! the
   mother of God, our Blessed Lady and Mistress, while she did not see her
   divine child but felt him within her,--Ah! my God! what content had she
   therein! And did not S. Elizabeth admirably enjoy the fruits of our
   Saviour's divine presence without seeing him, upon the day of the most
   holy Visitation? Nor does the soul in this repose stand in need of the
   memory, for she has her lover present. Nor has she need of the
   imagination, for why should we represent in an exterior or interior
   image him whose presence we are possessed of? So that, to conclude, it
   is the will alone that softly, and as it were tenderly sucking, draws
   the milk of this sweet presence; all the rest of the soul quietly
   reposing with her by the sweetness of the pleasure which she takes.

   Honied wine is used not only to withdraw and recall bees to their
   hives, but also to pacify them. For when they stir up sedition and
   mutiny amongst themselves with mutual slaughter and destruction, their
   keeper has no better remedy than to throw honied wine amidst this
   enraged little people; because, when they perceive this sweet and
   agreeable odour, they are pacified, and giving themselves up to the
   fruition of this sweetness, they remain quieted and tranquil. O Eternal
   God! When by thy sweet presence thou dost cast odoriferous perfumes
   into our hearts, perfumes more pleasing than delicious wine and honey,
   all the powers of our soul enter into so delightful a repose and so
   absolute a rest, that there is no movement save of the will, which, as
   the spiritual sense of smell, remains delightfully engaged in enjoying,
   without adverting to it, the incomparable good of having its God
   present.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [292] Cant. iii. 4.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   OF VARIOUS DEGREES OF THIS REPOSE, AND HOW IT IS TO BE PRESERVED.

   There are souls active, fertile and abounding in considerations. There
   are souls who readily double and bend back on themselves, who love to
   feel what they are doing, who wish to see and scrutinize what passes in
   them, turning their view ever on themselves to discover the progress
   they make. And there are yet others who are not content to be content
   unless they feel, see, and relish their contentment; these are like to
   persons who being well protected against the cold would not believe it
   if they knew not how many garments they had on, or who, seeing their
   cabinets full of money, would not esteem themselves rich unless they
   knew the number of their coins.

   Now all these spirits are ordinarily subject to be troubled in prayer,
   for if God deign them the sacred repose of his presence, they
   voluntarily forsake it to note their own behaviour therein, and to
   examine whether they are really in content, disquieting themselves to
   discern whether their tranquillity is really tranquil, and their
   quietude quiet: so that instead of sweetly occupying their will in
   tasting the sweets of the divine presence, they employ their
   understanding in reasoning upon the feelings they have; as a bride who
   should keep her attention on her wedding-ring without looking upon the
   bridegroom who gave it her. There is a great difference, Theotimus,
   between being occupied with God who gives us the contentment, and being
   busied with the contentment which God gives us.

   The soul, then, to whom God gives holy, loving quiet in prayer, must
   abstain as far as she is able from looking upon herself or her repose,
   which to be preserved must not be curiously observed; for he who loves
   it too much loses it, and the right rule of loving it properly is not
   to love it too anxiously. [293] And as a child who, to see where his
   feet are, has taken his head from his mother's breast, immediately
   returns to it, because he dearly loves it; so if we perceive ourselves
   distracted, through a curiosity to know what we are doing in prayer, we
   must replace our hearts in the sweet and peaceable attention to God's
   presence from whence we strayed. Yet we are not to apprehend any danger
   of losing this sacred repose by actions of body or mind which are not
   done from lightness or indiscretion. For, as the Blessed Mother (S.)
   Teresa says, it were a superstition to be so jealous of this repose as
   not to cough, spit or breathe, for fear of losing it, since God who
   gives this peace does not withdraw it for such necessary movements, nor
   yet for those distractions and wanderings of the mind which are not
   voluntary: and the will having once tasted the divine presence does not
   cease to relish the sweetness thereof, though the understanding or
   memory should make an escape and slip away after foreign and useless
   thoughts.

   It is true the repose of the soul is not then so great as when the
   understanding and memory conspire with the will, yet is it a true
   spiritual tranquillity, since it continues to reign in the will, which
   is the mistress of all the other faculties. Indeed we have seen a soul
   most strongly fixed and united to her God, who yet had her
   understanding and memory so free from all interior occupation, that she
   understood very distinctly all that was said around her, and perfectly
   remembered it, though she could not answer, or loose herself from God,
   to whom she was fastened by the application of her will. And so
   attached, I tell you, that she could not be withdrawn from this sweet
   entertainment without experiencing a great grief, which provoked her to
   sighs: these indeed she gave in the very deepest of her consolation and
   quiet; as we see young children murmur and make little plaints when
   they have ardently desired the milk, and begin to suck; or as Jacob
   did, who, in kissing the fair and chaste Rachel, lifting up his voice
   wept, [294] through the vehemence of the consolation and tenderness
   which he felt. This soul, then, whom I speak of, having only her will
   engaged, but her understanding, memory, hearing and imagination free,
   resembled, I think, the little child who, while sucking, might see and
   hear and even move his arms, without quitting the dear breast.

   However, the peace of the soul would be much greater and sweeter if
   there were no noise around her, nor occasion given of stirring herself
   either in body or mind, for she would greatly wish to be solely
   occupied in the sweetness of this divine presence; however, being
   sometimes unable to hinder distractions in her other faculties, she
   preserves peace in the will at least, which is the faculty whereby she
   receives the enjoyment of good. And note, that then the will being
   retained in quiet by the pleasure which it takes in the divine
   presence, does not move itself to bring back the other powers which are
   straying; because by undertaking this she would lose her repose,
   separating herself from her dearly beloved; and she would lose her
   labour if she ran hither and thither to catch these volatile powers,
   which also can never be better brought to their duty than by the
   perseverance of the will in holy quiet: for little by little all the
   faculties are attracted by the pleasure which the will receives, and of
   which she gives them a certain perception like perfumes which excite
   them to draw near her, to participate in the good which she enjoys.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [293] La juste reigle de le bien affectionner, c'est de ne point
   l'affecter.

   [294] Gen. xxix. 11.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   A CONTINUATION OF THE DISCOURSE TOUCHING THE VARIOUS DEGREES OF HOLY
   QUIET, AND OF AN EXCELLENT ABNEGATION OF SELF WHICH IS SOMETIMES
   PRACTISED THEREIN.

   According then to what we have said, holy quiet has divers degrees. For
   sometimes it is in all the powers of the soul joined and united to the
   will; sometimes it is in the will only, and there sometimes sensibly at
   other times imperceptibly: because it happens sometimes that the soul
   takes an incomparable delight in feeling by certain interior
   sweetnesses that God is present with her (as happened to S. Elizabeth
   when our Blessed Lady visited her): and at other times the soul has a
   certain ardent sweetness in being in God's presence, which for the
   moment is imperceptible to her, as happened to the pilgrim-disciples,
   who walking with our Saviour did not fully perceive the agreeable
   pleasure with which they were thrilled, till such time as they had
   arrived and had known him in the divine breaking of the bread. [295]
   Sometimes the soul not only perceives God's presence, but hears him
   speak, by certain inward illuminations and interior persuasions which
   stand in place of words. Sometimes she perceives him, and in her turn
   speaks to him, but so secretly, sweetly and delicately, that it does
   not make her lose her holy peace and quiet, so that without awaking she
   watches with him; that is, she wakes and speaks to her well-beloved's
   heart, with as sweet tranquillity and grateful repose as though she
   sweetly slumbered. At other times she hears the beloved speak, but she
   cannot speak to him, because the delight she has to hear him, or the
   reverence she bears him, keeps her in silence, or, perhaps, because she
   is in dryness, and is so languid in spirit that she has only strength
   to hear and not to speak; as is sometimes the case in corporeal matters
   with those who are going to sleep, or who are greatly weakened by some
   malady.

   But, finally, sometimes she neither hears nor speaks to her
   well-beloved, nor yet feels any sign of his presence, but simply knows
   that she is in the presence of her God, to whom it is pleasing that she
   should be there. Suppose, Theotimus, that the glorious Apostle S. John
   had slept with a bodily sleep in the bosom of his dear Master at the
   Last Supper, and that he had slept by his commandment; verily in that
   case he would have been in his Master's presence without in any way
   feeling it. And mark, I pray you, that there is more care required to
   place oneself in God's presence, than to remain there when placed: for,
   to place oneself there it is requisite to apply the mind and render it
   actually attentive to this presence (as I explain in the Introduction.
   [296] ) But being placed in this presence, we keep ourself there by
   many other means, so long as, whether by understanding or by will, we
   do anything in God or for God: as, for example, by beholding him, or
   anything for love of him; by hearing him, or those that speak for him;
   by speaking to him, or to some one for love of him; and by doing any
   work whatsoever for his honour and service. Yea, one may continue in
   God's presence not only by hearing him, seeing him, or speaking to him,
   but also by waiting to see if it may please him to look at us, to speak
   to us, or to make us speak to him: or yet again, by doing nothing of
   all this, but by simply staying where it pleases him for us to be, and
   because it pleases him for us to be there. But if to this simple
   fashion of staying before him, it pleases him to add some little
   feeling that we are all his, and he all ours--O God! how desirable and
   precious is our privilege!

   My dear Theotimus, let us further take the liberty to frame this
   imagination. If a statue which the sculptor had niched in the gallery
   of some great prince were endowed with understanding, and could reason
   and talk; and if it were asked: O fair statue, tell me now, why art
   thou in that niche?--It would answer,--Because my master placed me
   there. And if one should reply,--But why stayest thou there without
   doing anything?--Because, would it say, my master did not place me here
   to do anything, but simply that I should be here motionless. But if one
   should urge it further, saying: But, poor statue, what art thou the
   better for remaining there in that sort? Well! would it say, I am not
   here for my own interest and service, but to obey and accomplish the
   will of my master and maker; and this suffices me. And if one should
   yet insist thus: Tell me then, statue, I pray, not seeing thy master
   how dost thou find contentment in contenting him? No, verily, would it
   confess; I see him not, for I have not eyes for seeing, as I have not
   feet for walking; but I am too contented to know that my dear master
   sees me here, and takes pleasure in seeing me here. But if one should
   continue the dispute with the statue, and say unto it: But wouldst thou
   not at least wish to have power to move that thou mightest approach
   near thy maker, to afford him some better service? Doubtless it would
   answer, No, and would protest that it desired to do nothing but what
   its master wished. Is it possible then, would one say at last, that
   thou desirest nothing but to be an immovable statue there, within that
   hollow niche? Yes, truly, would that wise statue answer in conclusion;
   I desire to be nothing but a statue and ever in this niche, so long as
   my master pleases, contenting myself to be here, and thus, since such
   is the contentment of him whose I am, and by whom I am what I am.

   O true God! how good a way it is of remaining in God's presence to be,
   and to will to be, ever and for ever, at his good-pleasure! For so, I
   consider, in all occurrences, yea, in our deepest sleep, we are still
   more deeply in the most holy presence of God. Yea, verily, Theotimus:
   for if we love him we sleep not only in his sight, but at his pleasure,
   and not only by his will, but also according to his will. And meseems
   it is himself, our Creator and heavenly sculptor, who lays us there on
   our beds as statues in their niches, that we may settle there as birds
   nestle in their nests. Then at our waking, if we reflect upon it, we
   find that God was ever present with us, and that we were in no wise
   absent or separated from him. We have then been there in the presence
   of his good-pleasure, though without seeing or noticing him, so that we
   might say in imitation of Jacob: [297] Indeed I have slept by my God
   and in the arms of his divine presence and providence, and I knew it
   not!

   Now this quiet, in which the will works not save only by a simple
   acquiescence in the divine good-pleasure, willing to be in prayer
   without any other aim than to be in the sight of God according as it
   shall please him, is a sovereignly excellent quiet, because it has no
   mixture of self-interest, the faculties of the soul taking no content
   in it, nor even the will save by its supreme point, in which its
   contentment is to admit no other contentment but that of being without
   contentment for the love of the contentment and good-pleasure of its
   God, in which it rests. For in fine the height of love's ecstasy is to
   have our will not in its own contentment but in God's, or, not to have
   our contentment in our own will, but in God's.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [295] Luke xxiv.

   [296] II. 2.

   [297] Gen. xxviii. 16.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   OF THE OUTFLOWING (escoulement) OR LIQUEFACTION OF THE SOUL IN GOD.

   Moist and liquid things easily receive the figures and limits which may
   be given them, because they have no firmness or solidity which stops or
   limits them in themselves. Put liquid into a vessel, and you will see
   it remain bounded within the limits of the vessel, and according as
   this is round or square the liquid will be the same, having no other
   limit or shape than that of the vessel which contains it.

   The soul is not so by nature, for she has her proper shapes and limits:
   she takes her shape from her habits and inclinations, her limits from
   her will; and when she is fixed upon her own inclinations and wills, we
   say she is hard, that is, self-willed, obstinate. I will take away,
   says God, the stony heart out of your flesh, and will give you a heart
   of flesh. [298] To change the form of stones, iron, or wood, the axe,
   hammer and fire are required. We call that a heart of iron, or wood, or
   stone, which does not easily receive the divine impressions, but lives
   in its own will, amidst the inclinations which accompany our depraved
   nature. On the contrary, a gentle, pliable and tractable heart, is
   termed a melting and liquefied heart. My heart, said David, speaking in
   the person of our Saviour upon the cross, is become like wax melting in
   the midst of my bowels! [299] Cleopatra, that infamous Queen of Egypt,
   striving to outvie Mark Antony in all the excesses and dissolutions of
   his banquets, at the end of a feast which she made in her turn, called
   for a vial of fine vinegar, and dropped into it one of the pearls which
   she wore in her ears, valued at two hundred and fifty thousand crowns,
   which being dissolved, melted and liquefied, she swallowed it, and
   would further have buried, in the sink of her vile stomach, the pearl
   which she wore in her other ear, if Lucius Plautus had not prevented
   her. Our Saviour's heart, the true oriental pearl, singularly unique
   and priceless, thrown into the midst of a sea of incomparable
   bitternesses in the day of his passion, melted in itself, dissolved,
   liquefied, gave way and flowed out in pain, under the press of so many
   mortal anguishes; but love, stronger than death, mollifies, softens and
   melts hearts far more quickly than all the other passions.

   My heart, said the holy spouse, melted when he spoke. [300] And what
   does melted mean save that it was no longer contained within itself,
   but had flowed out towards its divine lover? God ordered that Moses
   should speak to the rock, and that it should produce waters: no marvel
   then if he himself melted the heart of his spouse when he spoke to her
   in his sweetness. Balm is so thick by nature that it is not fluid or
   liquid, and the longer it is kept the thicker it grows, and in the end
   grows hard, becoming red and transparent: yet heat dissolves it and
   makes it fluid. Love had made the beloved fluid and flowing, whence the
   spouse calls him oil poured out; and now she tells us that she herself
   is all melted with love. My soul, said she, melted when he spoke. The
   love of her spouse was in her heart and breast as a strong new wine
   which cannot be contained in the tun; for it overflowed on every side;
   and, because the soul follows its love, after the spouse had said: Thy
   breasts are better than wine, smelling sweet of the best ointments, she
   adds: Thy name is as oil poured out. [301] And as the beloved had
   poured out his love and his soul into the heart of the spouse, so the
   spouse reciprocally pours her soul into the heart of her beloved; and
   as we see a honeycomb touched with the sun's ardent rays goes out of
   itself, and forsakes its form, to flow out towards that side where the
   rays touch it, so the soul of this lover flowed out towards where the
   voice of her beloved was heard, going out of herself and passing the
   limits of her natural being, to follow him that spoke unto her.

   But how does this sacred outflowing of the soul into its well-beloved
   take place? An extreme complacency of the lover in the thing beloved
   begets a certain spiritual powerlessness, which makes the soul feel
   herself no longer able to remain in herself. Wherefore, as melted balm,
   that no longer has firmness or solidity, she lets herself pass and flow
   into what she loves: she does not spring out of herself as by a sudden
   leap, nor does she cling as by a joining and union, but gently glides
   as a fluid and liquid thing, into the divinity whom she loves. And as
   we see that the clouds, thickened by the south wind, melting and
   turning to rain, cannot contain themselves, but fall and flow
   downwards, and mix themselves so entirely with the earth which they
   moisten that they become one thing with it, so the soul which, though
   loving, remained as yet in herself, goes out by this sacred outflowing
   and holy liquefaction, and quits herself, not only to be united to the
   well-beloved, but to be entirely mingled with and steeped in him.

   You see then clearly, Theotimus, that the outflowing of a soul into her
   God is a true ecstasy, by which the soul quite transcends the limits of
   her natural form of existence (maintien) being wholly mingled with,
   absorbed and engulfed in, her God. Hence it happens that such as attain
   to these holy excesses of heavenly love, afterwards, being come to
   themselves, find nothing on the earth that can content them, and living
   in an extreme annihilation of themselves, remain much weakened in all
   that belongs to the senses, and have perpetually in their hearts the
   maxim of the Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa: "What is not God is to me
   nothing." And it seems that such was the loving passion of that great
   friend of the well-beloved, who said: I live, now not I; but Christ
   liveth in me, [302] and: Our life is hid with Christ in God. [303] For
   tell me, I pray you, Theotimus, if a drop of common water, thrown into
   an ocean of some priceless essence, were alive, and could speak and
   declare its condition, would it not cry out with great joy: O mortals!
   I live indeed, but I live not myself, but this ocean lives in me, and
   my life is hidden in this abyss?

   The soul that has flowed out into God dies not, for how can she die by
   being swallowed up in life? But she lives without living in herself,
   because, as the stars without losing their light still do not shine in
   the presence of the sun, but the sun shines in them and they are hidden
   in the light of the sun, so the soul, without losing her life, lives
   not herself when mingled with God, but God lives in her. Such, I think,
   were the feelings of the great Blessed (SS.) Philip Neri and Francis
   Xavier, when, overwhelmed with heavenly consolations, they petitioned
   God to withdraw himself for a space from them, since his will was that
   their life should a little longer appear unto the world; which could
   not be while it was wholly hidden and absorbed in God.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [298] Ezech. xxxvi. 26.

   [299] Ps. xxi. 15.

   [300] Cant. v. 6.

   [301] Cant. i. 1, 2.

   [302] Gal. ii. 20.

   [303] Col. iii. 3.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   OF THE WOUND OF LOVE.

   All these terms of love are drawn from the resemblance there is between
   the affections of the mind and the passions of the body. Grief, fear,
   hope, hatred, and the rest of the affections of the soul, only enter
   the heart when love draws them after it. We do not hate evil except
   because it is contrary to the good which we love: we fear future evil
   because it will deprive us of the good we love. Though an evil be
   extreme yet we never hate it except in so far as we love the good to
   which it is opposed. He who does not much love the commonwealth is not
   much troubled to see it ruined: he who scarcely loves God, scarcely
   also hates sin. Love is the first, yea the principle and origin, of all
   the passions, and therefore it is love that first enters the heart; and
   because it penetrates and pierces down to the very bottom of the will
   where its seat is, we say it wounds the heart. "It is sharp," says the
   apostle of France, [304] "and enters into the spirit most deeply." The
   other affections enter indeed, but by the agency of love, for it is
   this which piercing the heart makes a passage for them. It is only the
   point of the dart that wounds, the rest only increases the wound and
   the pain.

   Now, if it wound, it consequently gives pain. Pomegranates, by their
   vermilion colour, by the multitude of their seeds, so close set and
   ranked, and by their fair crowns, vividly represent, as S. Gregory
   says, most holy charity, all red by reason of its ardour towards God,
   loaded with all the variety of virtues, and alone bearing away the
   crown of eternal rewards: but the juice of pomegranates, which as we
   know is so agreeable both to the healthy and to the sick, is so mingled
   of sweet and sour that one can hardly discern whether it delights the
   taste more because it has a sweet tartness or because it has a tart
   sweetness. Verily, Theotimus, love is thus bitter-sweet, and while we
   live in this world it never has a sweetness perfectly sweet, because it
   is not perfect, nor ever purely satiated and satisfied: and yet it
   fails not to be of very agreeable taste, its tartness correcting the
   lusciousness of its sweetness, as its sweetness heightens the relish of
   its tartness. But how can this be? You shall see a young man enter into
   a company, free, hearty, and in the best of spirits, who, being off his
   guard, feels, before he goes away, that love, making use of the
   glances, the gestures, the words, yea even of the hair of a silly and
   weak creature, as of so many darts, has smitten and wounded his poor
   heart, so that there he is, all sad, gloomy and depressed. Why I pray
   you is he sad? Without doubt because he is wounded. And what has
   wounded him? Love. But love being the child of complacency, how can it
   wound and give pain? Sometimes the beloved object is absent, and then,
   my dear Theotimus, love wounds the heart by the desire which it
   excites; this it is which, being unable to satiate itself, grievously
   torments the spirit.

   If a bee had stung a child, it were to poor purpose to say to him: Ah!
   my child, the bee that stung you is the very same that makes the honey
   you are so fond of. For he might say: it is true, that its honey is
   very pleasant to my taste, but its sting is very painful, and while its
   sting remains in my cheek I cannot be at peace, and do you not see that
   my face is all swollen with it? Theotimus, love is indeed a
   complacency, and consequently very delightful, provided that it does
   not leave in our heart the sting of desire; for when it leaves this, it
   leaves therewith a great pain. True it is this pain proceeds from love,
   and therefore is a loveable and beloved pain. Hear the painful yet
   love-full ejaculations of a royal lover. My soul hath thirsted after
   the strong living God; when shall I come and appear before the face of
   God? My tears have been my bread day and night, whilst it is said to me
   daily: where is thy God? [305] And the sacred Sulamitess, wholly
   steeped in her dolorous loves, speaking to the daughters of Jerusalem:
   Ah! says she, I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my
   beloved, that you tell him that I languish with love. [306] Hope that
   is deferred afflicteth the soul. [307]

   Now the painful wounds of love are of many sorts.  1. The first strokes
   we receive from love are called wounds, because the heart which
   appeared sound, entire and all its own before it loved, being struck
   with love begins to separate and divide itself from itself, to give
   itself to the beloved object. Now this separation cannot be made
   without pain, seeing that pain is nothing but the division of living
   things which belong to one another.  2. Desire incessantly stings and
   wounds the heart in which it is, as we have said.  3. But, Theotimus,
   speaking of heavenly love, there is in the practice of it a kind of
   wound given by God himself to the soul which he would highly perfect.
   For he gives her admirable sentiments of and incomparable attractions
   for his sovereign goodness, as if pressing and soliciting her to love
   him; and then she forcibly lifts herself up as if to soar higher
   towards her divine object; but stopping short, because she cannot love
   as much as she desires:--O God! she feels a pain which has no equal. At
   the same time that she is powerfully drawn to fly towards her dear
   well-beloved, she is also powerfully kept back and cannot fly, being
   chained to the base miseries of this mortal life and of her own
   powerlessness: she desires the wings of a dove that she may fly away
   and be at rest, [308] and she finds not. There then she is, rudely
   tormented between the violence of her desires and her own
   powerlessness. Unhappy man that I am, said one of those who had
   experienced this torture, who shall deliver me from the body of this
   death? [309] In this case, if you notice, Theotimus, it is not the
   desire of a thing absent that wounds the heart, for the soul feels that
   her God is present; he has already led her into his wine-cellar, he has
   planted upon her heart the banner of love: but still, though already he
   sees her wholly his, he urges her, and from time to time casts a
   thousand thousand darts of his love, showing her in new ways, how much
   more he is lovable than loved. And she, who has not so much force to
   love as love to force herself, seeing her forces so weak in respect of
   the desire she has to love worthily him whom no force of love can love
   enough,--Ah! she feels herself tortured with an incomparable pain; for,
   as many efforts as she makes to fly higher in her desiring love, so
   many thrills of pain does she receive.

   This heart in love with its God, desiring infinitely to love, sees
   notwithstanding that it can neither love nor desire sufficiently. And
   this desire which cannot come to effect is as a dart in the side of a
   noble spirit; yet the pain which proceeds from it is welcome, because
   whosoever desires earnestly to love, loves also earnestly to desire,
   and would esteem himself the most miserable man in the universe, if he
   did not continually desire to love that which is so sovereignly worthy
   of love. Desiring to love, he receives pain; but loving to desire, he
   receives sweetness.

   My God! Theotimus, what am I going to say? The blessed in heaven seeing
   that God is still more lovable than they are loving, would fail and
   eternally perish with a desire to love him still more, if the most holy
   will of God did not impose upon theirs the admirable repose which it
   enjoys: for they so sovereignly love this sovereign will, that its
   willing stays theirs, and the divine contentment contents them, they
   acquiescing to be limited in their love even by that will whose
   goodness is the object of their love. If this were not so, their love
   would be equally delicious and dolorous, delicious by the possession of
   so great a good, dolorous through an extreme desire of a greater love.
   God therefore continually drawing arrows, if we may say so, out of the
   quiver of his infinite beauty, wounds the hearts of his lovers, making
   them clearly see that they do not love him nearly as much as he is
   worthy to be beloved. That mortal who does not desire to love the
   divine goodness more, loves him not enough; sufficiency in this divine
   exercise is not sufficient, when a man would stay in it as though it
   sufficed him.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [304] S. Denis (Tr.)

   [305] Ps. xli. 3.

   [306] Cant. v. 8.

   [307] Prov. xiii. 12.

   [308] Ps. liv. 7.

   [309] Rom. vii. 24.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   OF SOME OTHER MEANS BY WHICH HOLY LOVE WOUNDS THE HEART.

   Nothing so much wounds a loving heart as to perceive another wounded
   with the love of it. The pelican builds her nest upon the ground,
   wherefore serpents often sting her young ones. Now when this happens,
   the pelican, as an excellent physician, with the point of her beak
   wounds these poor chicks all over, to cause the poison which the
   serpents' sting had spread through all the parts of their bodies to
   flow out with the blood; and to get out all the poison she lets out all
   the blood, and thus consequently, permits this little pelican-brood to
   perish. But seeing them dead she wounds herself, and spreading her
   blood over them she vivifies them with a new and purer life. Her love
   wounded them, and forthwith by the same love she wounds herself. Never
   do we wound a heart with the wound of love but we ourselves are wounded
   with the same. When the soul sees her God wounded by love for her sake,
   she immediately receives from it a reciprocal wound. Thou hast wounded
   my heart, [310] said the heavenly lover to the Sulamitess, and the
   Sulamitess cries out: Tell my beloved that I languish with love. [311]
   Bees never wound without being themselves wounded to death. And we,
   seeing the Saviour of our souls wounded to death by love of us, even to
   the death of the cross,--how can we but be wounded for him, but wounded
   with a wound as much more dolorously amorous as his was amorously
   dolorous, and a wound as great as is our inability to love him as much
   as his love and death require? It is, again, another wound of love,
   when the soul feels truly that she loves God, and yet he treats her as
   if he knew not that she loved him, or as if he were distrustful of her
   love: for then, my dear Theotimus, the soul is put into an extreme
   anguish, as it is insupportable to her to see and feel even the mere
   pretence God makes of distrusting her. The poor S. Peter had and felt
   his heart all filled with love for his master, and Our Lord, hiding his
   knowledge of it: Peter, said he, dost thou love me more than these? Ah!
   Lord, said the Apostle, thou knowest that I love thee. But, Peter,
   lovest thou me, replied Our Saviour. My dear Master, said the Apostle,
   truly I love thee, thou knowest it. But this sweet master to prove him,
   and as if showing a diffidence of his love: Peter, said he, dost thou
   love me? Ah! Lord, thou woundest this poor heart, which greatly
   afflicted cries out, amorously yet dolorously: Lord thou knowest all
   things: thou knowest that I love thee. [312] It happened once that a
   possessed person was being exorcised, and the wicked spirit being urged
   to tell his name: I am, said he, that miserable being deprived of love:
   and S. Catharine of Genoa who was there present suddenly perceived her
   whole frame disturbed and disordered, merely from having heard the
   words, privation of love, pronounced: for as the devils so hate divine
   love that they quake when they see its sign, or hear its name, that is,
   when they see the cross, or hear the name of Jesus pronounced, so those
   who dearly love Our Lord thrill with pain and horror when they see some
   sign or hear some word, that refers to the privation of this holy love.

   S. Peter was quite sure that Our Lord, knowing all things, could not be
   ignorant how much he was loved by him, yet because the repetition of
   this demand: Peter, dost thou love me? had some appearance of distrust,
   S. Peter is greatly grieved by it. Alas! that poor soul who feels that
   she is resolved rather to die than offend her God, and yet feels not a
   spark of fervour, but on the contrary an extreme coldness, which so
   benumbs and weakens her that at every step she falls into very sensible
   imperfections,--this soul I say, Theotimus, is all wounded: for her
   love is exceedingly in pain to see that God lets himself look as if he
   did not see how much she loves him, leaving her as a creature not
   belonging to him; and she fancies that amid her failings, her
   distractions and coldness, Our Lord smites her with this reproach: How
   canst thou say that thou lovest me, seeing thy soul is not with me? And
   this is a dart of pain through her heart, but a dart of pain which
   proceeds from love; for if she loved not, she would not be afflicted
   with the fear that she loved not.

   Sometimes this wound of love is made merely by the remembrance we have
   that there was a time in which we loved not our God. "Oh! too late have
   I loved thee, beauty ever ancient and ever new," said that saint who
   for thirty years was a heretic. The past life is an object of horror to
   the present life of him who has passed his previous life without loving
   the sovereign goodness.

   Sometimes love wounds us with the mere consideration of the multitude
   of those who contemn the love of God; so that we faint away with grief
   for this, as did he who said: My zeal hath made me pine away: because
   my enemies forgot thy words. [313] And the great S. Francis, thinking
   he was not heard, upon a day wept, sobbed and lamented so pitifully,
   that a good man hearing him ran as if to the succour of one who was
   going to be slain, and finding him all alone asked him: why dost thou
   cry so hard, poor man? Alas! said he, I weep to think that Our Lord
   endured so much for love of us and no one thinks of it: and having said
   thus he took to his tears again, and this good man sobbed and wept with
   him.

   But, however it be, there is this admirable in the wounds received from
   the divine love that their pain is delightful, and all that feel it
   consent to it, and would not change this pain for all the pleasures of
   the world. There is no pain in love, or if there is pain it is
   well-beloved pain. Once a Seraph, holding a golden arrow, from the head
   of which issued a little flame, darted it into the heart of the Blessed
   Mother (S.) Teresa; and when he would draw it out, it seemed to this
   virgin that he was tearing out her very entrails, the pain being so
   excessive that she had only strength to utter low and feeble moans; but
   yet a pain so dear that she would have wished never to be delivered
   from it. Such was the arrow of love that God sent into the heart of the
   great S. Catharine of Genoa in the beginning of her conversion, after
   which she became another woman, dead to the world and things created,
   to live only to her Creator. The well-beloved is a bundle of bitter
   myrrh, and this bitter bundle again is well-beloved, which abides
   dearly placed between the breasts, [314] that is, the best-beloved of
   all the well-beloved.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [310] Cant. iv. 9.

   [311] Cant. v. 8.

   [312] John xxi. 19.

   [313] Ps. cxviii. 139.

   [314] Cant. i. 12.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XV.

   OF THE AFFECTIONATE LANGUISHING OF THE HEART WOUNDED WITH LOVE.

   It is a thing very well known that human love not only wounds the
   heart, but even makes the body sick unto death; because, as the passion
   and temperament of the body have great power to incline the soul and
   draw her after it, so the affections of the soul have great force to
   stir the humours and change the qualities of the body. But besides
   this, love when it is violent bears away the soul to the thing beloved
   with such impetuosity, and so strongly possesses her, that she fails in
   all her other operations, be they sensitive or intellectual; so that to
   feed and second this love, the soul seems to abandon all other care,
   all other exercises, yea and herself too, whence Plato said that love
   was poor, ragged, naked, barefoot, miserable, houseless, that it lies
   without doors upon the hard ground, always in want. It is poor, because
   it makes one quit all for the thing beloved; it is houseless, because
   it urges the soul to leave her own habitation to follow continually him
   who is loved; it is miserable, pale, lean and broken down, because it
   makes one lose sleep, meat and drink; it is naked and barefoot, since
   it makes one forsake all other affections to embrace those of the thing
   beloved; it lies without upon the hard ground because it causes the
   heart that is in love to lie open, making it manifest its passion by
   sighs, plaints, praises, suspicions, jealousies; it lies along at the
   gate like a beggar, because it makes the lover perpetually attentive to
   the eyes and mouth of the thing which it loves, keeping continually to
   the ears thereof to speak to it and beg favours, wherewith love is
   never satiated; now the eyes, ears, and mouth are the gates of the
   soul. In fine the condition of its life is to be ever indigent, for if
   ever it is satiated it is no longer ardent, nor, consequently, love.

   True it is, Theotimus, that Plato spoke thus of the abject, vile and
   miserable love of worldlings; yet the same properties fail not to be
   found in heavenly and divine love. For turn your eyes a little upon
   those first masters of Christian doctrine, I mean those first doctors
   of holy evangelical love, and mark what one of them who had laboured
   the most said: Even unto this hour, says he, we both hunger, and
   thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no fixed abode. And
   we labour working with our own hands: we are reviled, and we bless: we
   are persecuted, and we suffer it. We are blasphemed, and we entreat: we
   are made as the refuse of this world, the off-scouring, and as it were
   the parings, of all even until now. [315] As though he had said we are
   so abject that if the world be a palace we are held the sweepings
   thereof, if the world be an apple we are its parings. What I pray you
   had brought them to this state but love? It was love that threw S.
   Francis naked before his bishop, and made him die naked upon the
   ground; it was love that made him a beggar all his life; it was love
   that sent the great S. Francis Xavier poor, needy, ragged, through the
   Indies and amongst the Japanese; it was love that brought the great
   Cardinal S. Charles, Archbishop of Milan, to that extremity of poverty
   amidst the riches which his birth and dignity gave him, that, as says
   the eloquent orator of Italy, Master (Monseigneur) Pancirola, he was as
   a dog in his master's house, eating but a bit of bread, drinking but a
   drop of water, and lying upon a little straw.

   Let us hear, I beseech you, the holy Sulamitess, who cries almost in
   this manner: Although by reason of a thousand consolations which my
   love gives me I be more fair than the rich tents of my Solomon (I mean
   more fair than heaven, which is the inanimate pavilion of his royal
   majesty, while I am his animated pavilion), yet am I all black, rent,
   dust-worn, and all spoilt by so many wounds and blows given me by the
   same love. Ah! regard not my hue, for truly I am brown, because my
   beloved, who is my sun, has darted the rays of his love upon me; rays
   which by their light illuminate, but which by their heat have made me
   sunburnt and swarthy, and touching me with their splendour they have
   bereft me of my colour. The passion of love has made me too happy in
   giving me a spouse such as is my king, but the same passion which is a
   mother to me (seeing she alone gave me in marriage, and not my merits),
   has other children which fiercely assault and trouble me, bringing me
   to such a languor, that as, on the one hand, I am like to a queen who
   is beside her king, so on the other hand I am as a vineyard-keeper who,
   in a miserable hut, looks to a vineyard, and a vineyard that is not his
   own.

   Truly, Theotimus, when the wounds and strokes of love are frequent and
   strong they put us into a languor, and into love's well-beloved
   sickness. Who could ever describe the loving languors of the SS.
   Catharine of Siena and Genoa, or of a S. Angela of Foligno, or S.
   Christina, or the Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa, a S. Bernard, a S.
   Francis. And as for this last, his life was nothing but tears, sighs,
   plaints, languors, wastings, love-trances. But in all this nothing is
   so wonderful as that admirable communication which the sweet Jesus made
   him of his loving and precious pains, by the impression of his wounds
   and stigmata. Theotimus, I have often pondered this wonder, and have
   made this conception of it. That great servant of God, a man wholly
   seraphical, beholding the lively picture of his crucified Saviour,
   represented in a shining seraph, who appeared unto him upon Mount
   Alverno, was touched beyond what could be imagined, being taken with a
   sovereign consolation and compassion, in beholding this bright mirror
   of love, which the angels cannot satisfy themselves in beholding. Ah!
   he as it were swooned away with sweetness and contentment. But seeing
   also the lively representation of the marks and wounds of his Saviour
   crucified, he felt in his soul the merciless sword which transfixed the
   sacred breast of the virgin-mother on the day of the passion, with as
   much interior pain as though he had been crucified with his dear
   Saviour. O God! Theotimus, if the picture of Abraham holding the
   death-stroke over his dear only-begotten, to sacrifice him, a picture
   drawn by mortal hand, had the power to touch and make weep the great S.
   Gregory, Bishop of Nyssa, as often as he beheld it,--Ah! how extreme
   was the tenderness of the great S. Francis when he beheld the picture
   of our Saviour sacrificing himself upon the cross, a picture which not
   a mortal hand, but the master-hand of a heavenly seraph, had drawn and
   traced from its very original, representing to the life and to nature
   the divine king of angels, bruised, wounded, pierced, broken,
   crucified.

   This soul then being thus mollified, softened and almost melted away in
   this love-full pain, was thereby extremely disposed to receive the
   impressions and marks of the love and pain of his sovereign lover; for
   his memory was wholly steeped in the remembrance of this divine love,
   his imagination forcibly applied to represent unto himself the wounds
   and livid bruises which his eyes then saw so perfectly expressed in the
   picture before him; the understanding received those most vivid images
   which the imagination furnished to it; and, finally, love employed all
   the forces of the will to enter into and conform itself to the passion
   of her well-beloved; whence without doubt the soul found herself
   transformed into a second crucified. Now the soul, as the form and
   mistress of the body, exercising her authority over it, impressed the
   pains of the wounds with which she was struck, on the parts
   corresponding to those wherein her beloved had endured them. Love is
   admirable in sharpening the imagination to penetrate to the exterior.
   In Laban's ewes the imagination had a corporal effect upon the lambs,
   and the imagination of human mothers affects their children. A strong
   imagination makes a man become grey in one night, and disturbs his
   health and all his humours. Love then drove the interior torment of
   this great lover S. Francis to the exterior, and wounded the body with
   the same dart of pain with which it had wounded the heart; but love
   being within could not well make the holes in the flesh without, and
   therefore the burning seraph coming to its help, darted rays of so
   penetrating a light, that it really made in the flesh the exterior
   wounds of the crucified, which love had imprinted interiorly in the
   soul. So the seraph seeing that Isaias did not dare to speak, because
   he perceived his lips defiled, came in the name of God to touch and
   purify his lips with a burning coal taken from off the altar, seconding
   in this sort his desire. The myrrh tree brings forth its gum and first
   liquor by way of sweat and transpiration, but that it may let out all
   its juice, it must be helped by incision. In the same way the divine
   love of S. Francis appeared in his whole life, after the manner of a
   sweating, for in all his actions he showed nothing but this sacred
   affection; but to make the incomparable abundance of it plainly appear,
   the divine seraph came to make the incision and wounds. And to the end
   it might be known that these wounds were wounds of Heaven's love, they
   were made not with the steel, but with rays of light. O true God!
   Theotimus, what amorous dolours and dolorous loves! For not only at
   that instant, but also his whole life after, this poor Saint went
   pining and languishing, as sick with very love.

   The Blessed (S.) Philip Neri, at fourscore years of age, had such an
   inflammation of heart through divine love, that the heat making the
   ribs give way to it, greatly enlarged them, and broke the fourth and
   fifth, that the heart might receive air and be refreshed. B. (S.)
   Stanislaus Kotska, a youth of fourteen years, was so assaulted by the
   love of his Saviour that he often fainted away and fell down, and he
   was constrained to apply linen steeped in cold water to his breast, to
   moderate the violence of the burning which he felt.

   To conclude, Theotimus, how do you think that a soul which has once
   tasted divine consolations at all freely, can live in this world so
   full of miseries, without an almost continual pain and languishing?
   That great man of God, Francis Xavier, was often heard lifting up his
   voice to Heaven, when he thought himself all alone, in this sort: Ah!
   my God, do not, for pity, do not bear me down with so great abundance
   of consolations; or if through thy infinite goodness it please thee to
   make me so abound in delights, draw me then into Paradise; for he who
   has once tasted thy sweetness must necessarily live in bitterness while
   he does not enjoy thee. And therefore when God has somewhat largely
   bestowed his heavenly sweetnesses upon a soul, and afterwards withdraws
   them, he wounds her by this privation, and she afterwards is left
   pining; sighing out with David: My soul hath thirsted after the strong
   living God; when shall I come and appear before the face of God? [316]
   And with the great Apostle: Unhappy man that I am, who shall deliver me
   from the body of this death? [317]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [315] 1 Cor. iv. 11.

   [316] Ps. xli. 3.

   [317] Rom. vii. 24.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK VII.

   OF THE

UNION OF THE SOUL WITH HER GOD, WHICH IS PERFECTED IN PRAYER.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   HOW LOVE EFFECTS THE UNION OF THE SOUL WITH GOD IN PRAYER.

   We speak not here of the general union of the heart with its God, but
   of certain particular acts and movements which the soul, recollected in
   God, makes by way of prayer, to be more and more united and joined to
   his divine goodness: for there is truly a difference between joining or
   uniting one thing to another, and clasping or pressing one thing
   against or upon another; because to join or unite there is only
   required an application of one thing to the other, so that they may
   touch, and be together, as we join vines to elms, and jessamine to the
   trellis-work of the arbours which are made in gardens. But to squeeze
   and press together, a strong application must be made, which increases
   and augments the union; so that to clasp together is to join strongly
   and closely, as we see ivy joined to trees, which is not united only,
   but pressed and clasped so hard to them that it even penetrates and
   enters into their bark.

   We must not drop the comparison of the love of little children towards
   their mothers, because of its innocence and purity. Regard, then, that
   sweet little child, to whom the seated mother presents her breast. It
   casts itself into her arms, gathering and folding its little body in
   this bosom and on this beloved breast. And see the mother,
   reciprocally, how, receiving it she clasps it, and as it were glues it
   to her bosom, and joining her mouth to its mouth kisses it. But see
   again this little babe, allured with its mother's caresses, how for its
   part it concurs in this union between its mother and itself: for it
   also, as much as it possibly can, squeezes and presses itself to its
   mother's breast and face, as though it would wholly dive into, and hide
   itself in that beloved being from whom it came. Now, Theotimus, in this
   moment union is perfect; which being but one, proceeds notwithstanding
   from the mother and the child, yet so, that it has its whole dependence
   upon the mother. For she drew the child to her, she first locked it in
   her arms, and pressed it to her breast; nor had the babe strength
   enough to clasp and keep itself so tight to its mother. Yet the poor
   little one does for its part what it can, and joins itself with all its
   strength to its mother's bosom, not consenting only to the delightful
   union which its mother makes, but contributing, with all its heart, its
   feeble endeavours: and I say its feeble endeavours, because they are so
   weak that they rather resemble efforts after union than actual union.

   Thus then, Theotimus, our Saviour, showing the most delightful breast
   of his divine love to the devout soul, draws her wholly to himself,
   gathers her up, and as it were folds all her powers in the bosom of his
   more than motherly sweetness, and then burning with love, he clasps the
   soul, joins, presses and glues her on his lips of sweetness, and to his
   delicious breast, kissing her with the sacred kiss of his mouth, and
   making her relish his breasts more sweet than wine. [318] Then the
   soul, allured with the delights of these favours, not only consents,
   and yields herself to the union which God makes, but with all her power
   co-operates, forcing herself to join and clasp herself closer and
   closer to the divine goodness; yet in such a way that she fully
   acknowledges her union and attachment to this sovereign sweetness to be
   wholly dependent upon God's operation, without which she could not make
   the least effort in the world to be united unto him.

   When we see an exquisite beauty beheld with great ardour, or an
   excellent melody heard with great attention, or a rare discourse
   listened to with great satisfaction, we are wont to say that this
   beauty rivets the eyes of the spectators, this music takes the ears,
   and this discourse captivates the hearts, of the auditors. What does
   this mean--to rivet the eyes and ears, or to captivate the heart--save
   to unite and most closely join these senses and powers to their
   objects? The soul then closely joins herself to, and presses herself
   upon, her object, when she exercises her affection towards it with
   great intensity; for pressure is nothing more than the progress and
   advancement of the union and conjunction. We make use of this word,
   according to our language, even in moral matters: he presses me to do
   this, or he presses me to stay, that is, he does not merely use his
   persuasion and prayer, but does it with earnestness and entreaty, as
   did the pilgrims in Emmaus, who not only petitioned our Saviour, but
   even pressed and forcibly urged him, and compelled him by a loving
   violence to remain in their lodging with them.

   Now in prayer this union is often made by manner of little yet frequent
   flights and advancings of the soul towards God: and if you take notice
   of little children united and joined to their mothers' breasts, you
   will see that ever and anon they press and clasp closer, with little
   movements which the pleasure they take in sucking makes them give: so
   the heart united to God in prayer often makes certain renewals of
   union, by movements which press and join it more closely to the divine
   sweetness. As for example, the soul having long dwelt in the feeling of
   the union whereby she sweetly tastes how happy she is to belong to God,
   in fine, augmenting this union by an amorous pressing and moving
   forwards: Yea, Lord, will she say, I am thine, all, all, all, without
   reserve; or: Ah Lord! I am so indeed, and will be daily ever more; or,
   by way of prayer: O sweet Jesus! Ah! draw me still more deeply into thy
   heart, that thy love may devour me, and that I may be swallowed up in
   its sweetness.

   But at other times the union is made not by repeated movements, but by
   way of a continued insensible pressing and advancing of the heart in
   the divine goodness. For as we see a great and heavy mass of lead,
   brass or stone, though not forced down, so work itself, sink down, and
   press itself, into the earth where it lies, that at length it is found
   buried, by reason of the effect of its weight, which makes it
   incessantly tend to the centre;--so our heart, being once joined to
   God, if without being drawn away it remain in this union, sinks still
   deeper by an insensible progress of union, till it is wholly in God, by
   reason of the sacred inclination given it by love to unite itself ever
   more and more to the sovereign goodness. For as the great apostle of
   France says: "Love is a unitive virtue:" that is, it carries us to
   perfect union with the sovereign good. And since it is an undoubted
   truth that divine love, while we are in this life, is a movement, or at
   least a habit active and tending to movement; even after it has
   attained simple union, it ceases not to act, though imperceptibly, in
   order more and more to increase and perfect it.

   So trees that require transplanting, as soon as they are moved spread
   their roots and lodge them deeply in the bosom of the earth, which is
   their element and their aliment, nor do any perceive it while it is
   doing, but only after it is done. And man's heart, transplanted out of
   the world into God by celestial love, if it earnestly practise prayer,
   will certainly ever extend itself, and will fasten itself to the
   Divinity, uniting itself more and more to his goodness, but by
   imperceptible advances, whose progress one can hardly see while it is
   doing, but only when it is done. If you drink any exquisite water, for
   instance, imperial water, the simple union of it with you is instantly
   made upon your receiving it; for the receiving and union is all one in
   this case; but afterwards by little and little this union is increased,
   by a progress imperceptibly sensible: for the virtue of this water
   penetrating to all parts, will strengthen the brain, invigorate the
   heart, and extend its influence through all your humours. In like
   manner, a feeling of love--as for example: How good God is!--having got
   entrance into the heart, at first causes union with this goodness; but
   being entertained for some fairly long time, as a precious perfume it
   penetrates every part of the soul, pours out and dilates itself in our
   will, and as it were, incorporates itself with our spirit, joining and
   fastening itself on every side more and more closely to us, and uniting
   us to it. And this is what the great David teaches us, when he compares
   the sacred words to honey; for who knows not that the sweetness of
   honey is united more and more to our sense by a continual increase of
   savour, when, keeping it a good while in our mouth, or swallowing it
   slowly, the relish thereof more deeply penetrates our sense of taste.
   In the same way that sentiment of the divine goodness, expressed in
   those words of S. Bruno: O Goodness! or those of S. Thomas: My Lord and
   my God! or those of S. Magdalen: Ah! my Master! or those of S. Francis:
   My God and my All!--this sentiment, I say, having been kept some while
   within a loving heart, dilates itself, spreads itself, and sinks into
   the spirit by an intimate penetration, and more and more steeps it all
   in its savour. This is nothing else than to increase union; as does
   precious ointment or balm, which, falling upon cotton-wool, so sinks
   into it and unites itself to it more and more, little by little, that
   in the end one cannot easily say whether the wool is perfumed or
   perfume, or, whether the perfume is wool, or the wool perfume. Oh! how
   happy is the soul who in the tranquillity of her heart lovingly
   preserves the sacred feeling of God's presence! For her union with the
   divine goodness will have continual though imperceptible increase, and
   will thoroughly steep the spirit of such a one in infinite sweetness.
   Now when I speak here of the sacred sentiment of the presence of God, I
   do not mean to speak of a sensible feeling, but of that which resides
   in the summit and supreme point of the spirit, where heavenly love
   reigns and conducts its principal exercises.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [318] Cant. i. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   OF THE VARIOUS DEGREES OF THE HOLY UNION WHICH IS MADE IN PRAYER.

   Sometimes the union is made without our co-operation, save only by a
   simple following (suite), permitting ourselves to be united to the
   divine goodness without resistance, as a little child, in love with its
   mother's breasts, and yet so feeble that it cannot move itself towards
   them, nor cleave to them when there; only it is--Ah! so happy, to be
   taken and drawn within its mother's arms, and to be pressed by her to
   her bosom.

   Sometimes we co-operate, when, being drawn, we willingly run, [319] to
   second the force of God's goodness which draws us and clasps us to him
   by love.

   Sometimes we seem to begin to join and fasten ourselves to God before
   he joins himself to us, because we feel the action of the union on our
   part, without perceiving what God is doing on his side, who, however,
   there is no doubt, always acts first on us, though we do not always
   perceive his action: for unless he united himself to us we should never
   unite ourselves to him; he always chooses and lays hold of us, before
   we choose or lay hold of him. But when, following his imperceptible
   attractions, we begin to unite ourselves to him, he sometimes makes the
   continuation of our union, assisting our weakness, and joining himself
   perceptibly to us, insomuch that we feel him enter and penetrate our
   hearts with an incomparable sweetness. And sometimes also, as he drew
   us insensibly to the union, he continues insensibly to aid and assist
   us. And we know not indeed how so great a union is made, yet know we
   well that our forces are not able to make it, wherefore we justly argue
   that some secret power is working insensibly in us: as skippers with a
   cargo of iron perceiving their ships move apace with a very light
   breeze, know that they are near mountains of loadstone, which draw them
   imperceptibly, and thus they perceive a sensible and perceptible
   advancement caused by an insensible and imperceptible means. For so
   when we see our spirit unite itself ever closer and closer to God,
   during the little efforts which our will makes, we rightly judge that
   we have too little wind to sail so fast, and that it must needs be that
   the loadstone of our souls draws us by the secret influence of his
   grace: which he would leave imperceptible, that it may be more
   admirable, and that undistracted by the sense of his drawings, we may
   with more purity and simplicity be occupied in uniting ourselves to his
   goodness.

   Sometimes this union is made so insensibly that our heart neither
   perceives the divine operation in her, nor yet her own co-operation,
   but finds simply the union itself insensibly effected, like Jacob, who
   found himself married to Lia without thinking of it: or rather, like
   another Samson, but more happy, the heart finds itself netted and tied
   in the bands of holy union, without having ever perceived it.

   At other times we feel the embraces, the union being made by sensible
   actions as well on God's side, as on ours.

   Sometimes the union is made by the will only, and in the will only; and
   sometimes the understanding has its part therein, because the will
   draws it after it and applies it to its object, making it take a
   special pleasure in being fastened down to the consideration thereof;
   as we see that love causes in our corporal eyes a profound and special
   attention, to rivet them on the sight of what we love.

   Sometimes this union is made by all the faculties of the soul, which
   gather about the will, not to be united to God themselves, not being
   all capable of it, but to give more convenience to the will to make its
   union; for if the other faculties were applied each to its proper
   object, the soul working in them, could not so perfectly give herself
   to the action by which the union with God is made. Such is the variety
   of unions.

   Look at S. Martial (for he was, they say, the blessed child mentioned
   in S. Mark): Our Saviour took him, lifted him up, and held him for a
   good while in his arms. O lovely little Martial, how happy thou art to
   be laid hold of, taken up and carried, to be united, joined and clasped
   to the heavenly bosom of our Saviour, and kissed with his sacred mouth,
   without any co-operation of thine, save that thou didst not resist the
   receiving of those divine caresses! On the contrary, S. Simeon embraces
   our Saviour, and clasps him to his bosom, our Saviour giving no sign of
   co-operating in this union, though, as the holy Church sings: "The old
   man carried the child, but the child was governing the old man." S.
   Bonaventure, touched with a holy humility, did not only not unite
   himself to our Saviour, but withdrew himself from his real presence,
   that is, from the holy sacrament of the altar, when, hearing Mass one
   day, our Saviour came to unite himself with him, bringing him his holy
   sacrament. But this union being made,--Ah! Theotimus, think with what
   fervour this holy soul locked his Saviour in his heart! On the contrary
   S. Catharine of Siena ardently desiring our Saviour in the holy
   communion, pressing and advancing her soul and affection towards
   him--he came and joined himself unto her, entering into her mouth with
   a thousand benedictions. So that our Saviour began the union with S.
   Bonaventure, and S. Catharine seemed to begin that which she had with
   her Saviour. The sacred spouse in the Canticles speaks as having
   practised both sorts of unions. I to my beloved, and his turning is
   towards me: [320] which is as much as if she had said: I am united to
   my dear love, and he likewise turns towards me, to the end that uniting
   himself more and more unto me he may become wholly mine. A bundle of
   myrrh is my beloved to me, he shall abide between my breasts. [321] My
   soul, says David, hath stuck close to thee: thy right hand hath
   received me. [322] But in another place she confesses that she is first
   taken, saying: My beloved to me and I to him. [323] We make a holy
   union, by which he joins himself to me and I join myself to him. And
   yet to show that the whole union is ever made by God's grace, which
   draws us unto it, and by its attractions moves our soul and animates
   the movement of our union towards him, she cries out, as being wholly
   powerless: Draw me: yet to testify that she will not let herself be
   drawn as a stone or a galley-slave, but that on her side she will
   concur and will mingle her feeble movements with the mighty drawings of
   her lover: We will run after thee, she says, to the odour of thy
   ointments. [324] And to make it known that if she is strongly drawn by
   the will, all the powers of the soul will make towards the union: Draw
   me, says she, and we will run; the spouse draws but one, and many run
   to the union. It is the will only that God desires, but all the other
   powers run after it to be united to God with it.

   To this union the divine Shepherd of souls provoked his dear
   Sulamitess. Put me, says he, as a seal upon thy heart, as a seal upon
   thy arm. [325] To impress properly a signet upon wax, one not only
   applies it, but presses it hard down: so he desires that we should be
   united unto him by a union so strict and close, that we should remain
   marked with his seal.

   The charity of Christ presses us. [326] O God! what an example of
   excellent union! He was united to our human nature by grace, as a vine
   to its elm, to make it in some sort participate in his fruit; but
   seeing this union undone by Adam's sin, he made another more close and
   pressing union in the Incarnation, whereby human nature remains for
   ever joined in personal unity to the Divinity; and to the end that not
   human nature only, but that every man might be intimately united with
   his goodness, he instituted the Sacrament of the most holy Eucharist,
   in which every one may participate, to unite his Saviour to himself
   really and by way of food. Theotimus, this sacramental union urges and
   aids us towards the spiritual, of which we speak.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [319] Cant. i. 3.

   [320] Cant. vii. 10.

   [321] Cant. i. 12.

   [322] Ps. lxii. 9.

   [323] Cant. ii. 16.

   [324] Cant. i. 3.

   [325] Cant. viii. 6.

   [326] 2 Cor. v. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   OF THE SOVEREIGN DEGREE OF UNION BY SUSPENSION AND RAVISHMENT.

   Whether, therefore, the union of our soul with God be made perceptibly
   or imperceptibly, God is always the author thereof; for none can be
   united to him, but by going unto him, nor can any one go unto him,
   unless he be drawn by him, as the heavenly lover testifies, saying: No
   man can come to me, except the Father, who hath sent me, draw him.
   [327] Which his holy spouse also protests, saying: Draw me; we will run
   after thee to the odour of thy ointments. [328]

   Now the perfection of this union consists in two points; in being pure,
   and in being strong. May I not approach a person to speak to him, to
   see him better, to obtain something of him, to smell the perfumes which
   are about him, to lean on him? And then I certainly go towards him and
   join myself unto him: yet the approach and union is not my principal
   intention, and I only make this a means and way to the obtaining of
   another thing. But if I approach and join myself to him for no other
   end than to be near him, and to enjoy this proximity and union, it is
   then an approach of pure and simple union.

   Thus many approach our Saviour: some to hear him as Magdalen; some to
   be cured by him, as she that had the issue of blood; others to adore
   him, as the three kings; others to serve him, as Martha; others to
   overcome their unbelief, as S. Thomas; others to embalm him, as
   Magdalen, Joseph, Nicodemus; but his divine Sulamitess seeks him to
   find him, and having found him, desires no other thing than to hold him
   fast, and holding him, never to quit him. I held him, says she, and
   will not let him go. [329] Jacob, says S. Bernard, having fast hold of
   God, will let him go, provided he receive his benediction; but the
   Sulamitess will not let him depart for all the benedictions he can give
   her; for she wills not the benedictions of God, but the God of
   benedictions, saying with David: What have I in heaven, and besides
   thee what do I desire upon earth? Thou art the God of my heart, and the
   God that is my portion for ever. [330]

   Thus was the glorious Mother at the foot of her Son's cross. Ah! what
   dost thou seek, O Mother of life, on this mount of Calvary, in this
   place of death? I am seeking, would she have said, my child, who is the
   life of my life. And why dost thou seek him? To be close by him. But
   now he is amidst the sorrows of death. Ah! it is not joy I seek, it is
   himself, and my heart, full of love, makes me seek alway to be united
   to that amiable child, my tenderly beloved one. In a word, the
   intention of the soul in this union is nothing, save to be with her
   lover.

   But when the union of the soul with God is most specially strict and
   close, it is called by theologians inhesion or adhesion, because by it
   the soul is caught up, fastened, glued and affixed to the divine
   majesty, so that she cannot easily loose or draw herself back again.
   Regard, I pray you, that man caught and pressed by attention to the
   delight of an harmonious music, or mayhap (which is extravagant) to the
   folly of a game at cards: you would draw him from it, but cannot; what
   business soever is waiting for him at home, there is no forcing him
   thence; even meat and drink are forgotten for it. O God! Theotimus, how
   much more ought the soul which is in love with its God to be held and
   fast locked, being united to the divinity of the infinite sweetness,
   and taken and wholly possessed by this object of incomparable
   perfections? Such was the soul of the great vessel of election who
   cried out: That I may live to God, with Christ I am nailed to the
   Cross: [331] and he protests that nothing, no not death itself can
   separate him from his master. This effect of love was also produced
   between David and Jonathan, for it is said that: The soul of Jonathan
   was knit with the soul of David. [332] And it is an axiom celebrated
   amongst the ancient Fathers, that friendship which can end was never
   true friendship, as I have said elsewhere.

   See, I beseech you, Theotimus, this little child cleaving to the breast
   and neck of his mother; if one offer to take him thence to lay him in
   his cradle, it being high time, he struggles and disputes as far as he
   is able, in order not to leave that beloved bosom, and if he is made to
   let go with one hand, with the other he grapples, and if he is carried
   quite off, he falls a weeping; and keeping his heart and his eyes where
   he cannot keep his body, he continues crying out for his dear mother,
   till by rocking he is brought to sleep. So the soul who by the exercise
   of union has come as far as to be taken and fastened to the divine
   goodness, can hardly be drawn from it save by force and with much pain.
   It is not possible to make her loose hold; if one divert her
   imagination she ceases not to keep hold by her understanding, and if
   one loose her understanding she cleaves by the will; or if by some
   violent distraction one make her abandon it with her will, she turns
   back every instant towards her dear object, from which she cannot be
   entirely untied, but, striving all she can to link together again the
   sweet bonds of her union with him by the frequent returns which she
   makes, as by stealth, she experiences S. Paul's distress: [333] for she
   is pressed with two desires; to be freed from all exterior employment
   in order to remain with Jesus Christ in her interior, and yet to
   proceed to the work of obedience which the very union with Jesus Christ
   teaches her to be necessary.

   Now the Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa says excellently, that when union
   arrives at this perfection of keeping us held by and fastened to our
   Saviour, it is not distinguished from a rapture, trance, or suspension
   of the spirit; but that it is called only union, trance or suspension,
   when it is short; and when it is long, ecstasy or rapture, because the
   soul which is so firmly and closely united to her God that she cannot
   easily be drawn from him, is actually no longer in herself but in God;
   as a crucified body belongs not to itself but to the cross, and as ivy
   which grasps a wall, is no longer its own, but of the wall.

   But to avoid all ambiguity, know, Theotimus, that charity is a bond,
   and a bond of perfection; [334] and he that has more charity is more
   closely united and fastened unto God. But we have not been speaking of
   that union which is permanent in us by manner of habit, whether we be
   sleeping or waking, but of the union made by action, and which is one
   of the exercises of love and charity. Imagine then that S. Paul, S.
   Denis, S. Augustine, S. Bernard, S. Francis, SS. Catharine of Genoa and
   Siena, are again in this world, and have fallen asleep, wearied with
   their many labours, undertaken for the love of God. Represent to
   yourself on the other side some good soul, yet not so holy as they are,
   who is in the prayer of union at the same time: I ask you, Theotimus,
   who is more united, clasped and fastened to God,--is it these great
   saints who sleep, or that soul who prays? Without doubt, these
   admirable lovers; for they have more charity, and their affections,
   though in some sort asleep, are so engaged and tied to their master
   that they cannot be separated from him. But, you will say to me, how
   can it be, that a soul in the prayer of union, even unto ecstasy,
   should be less united unto God than such as sleep, be they never so
   saintly? Mark what I tell you, Theotimus; that soul is more advanced in
   the exercise of union, those in the union itself: these are united,
   they are not being united, as they are asleep: and that one is being
   united, that is, she is in the actual practice and exercise of union.

   For the rest, this exercise of union with God may even be practised by
   short and passing, yet frequent, movements of our heart to God, by way
   of ejaculatory prayer made for this intention. Ah Jesus! Who will give
   me the grace to be one spirit with thee! At last, Lord, rejecting the
   multiplicity of creatures, I desire thine only unity! O God, thou art
   the only one and only unity necessary for my soul! Alas! dear love of
   my heart, unite my poor one soul, to thy one singular goodness! Ah!
   thou art wholly mine, when shall I be wholly thine? The adamant draws
   and unites iron unto it; O Lord, my lover, be my draw-heart, clasp,
   press and unite my heart for ever unto thy fatherly breast! Ah! since I
   am made for thee, why am I not in thee? Swallow up, as a single drop,
   this spirit which thou hast bestowed upon me, into the sea of thy
   goodness from whence it proceeds. Ah Lord! seeing that thy heart loves
   me, why does it not force me to itself, since I truly will it? Draw me,
   and I will run after thy drawings, to cast myself into thy fatherly
   arms, to leave them no more for ever and ever. Amen.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [327] John vi. 44.

   [328] Cant. i. 3.

   [329] Cant. iii. 4.

   [330] Ps. lxxii. 25, 26.

   [331] Gal. ii. 19.

   [332] 1 Kings xviii. 1

   [333] Phil. i. 23.

   [334] Col. iii. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   OF RAPTURE, AND OF THE FIRST SPECIES OF IT.

   An ecstasy is called a rapture inasmuch as God does thereby rapt us,
   and raise us up to himself, and a rapture is termed an ecstasy, because
   by it we go and remain out of, and above, ourselves, to be united to
   God. And although the attractions by which God draws us be admirably
   pleasing, sweet and delicious, yet on account of the force which the
   divine beauty and goodness have to draw unto them the attention and
   application of the spirit, it seems that it not only raises us but that
   it ravishes and bears us away. As, on the contrary, by reason of the
   most free consent and ardent motion, by which the ravished soul goes
   out after the divine attractions, she seems not only to mount and rise,
   but also to break out of herself and cast herself into the very
   divinity. Similarly the soul may be ravished out of itself by the
   infamous ecstasy of sensual pleasure, by which however it is not raised
   up, but is degraded below itself.

   But, my dear Theotimus, as to sacred ecstasies, they are of three
   kinds; the one of them belongs to the understanding, another to the
   affection, and the third to action. The one is in splendour, the other
   in fervour, the third in works: the one is made by admiration, the
   other by devotion, and the third by operation. Admiration is caused in
   us by the meeting with a new truth, which we neither knew, nor yet
   expected to know; and if the new truth we meet with be accompanied by
   beauty and goodness, the admiration which proceeds from it is very
   delicious. So the Queen of Saba finding more true wisdom in Solomon
   than she had imagined, became filled with admiration. And the Jews,
   acknowledging in our Saviour more knowledge than they could ever have
   believed, were taken with a great admiration. When therefore it pleases
   the divine goodness to illuminate our heart with some special light,
   whereby it is raised to an extraordinary and sublime contemplation of
   heavenly mysteries, then, discovering more beauty in them than it could
   have imagined, it falls into admiration.

   Now admiration of things that cause pleasure closely fixes and glues
   the spirit to the thing admired, as well by reason of the excellent
   beauty which it causes to be found therein, as by the novelty of this
   excellence, the understanding being unable to delight itself enough in
   seeing what it never saw before, and what is so agreeable to the view.
   Sometimes also besides this, God imparts to the soul a light not only
   clear but growing, like the daybreak; and then, as those who have found
   a gold-mine continually break more earth, ever to find more of the
   wished-for metal, so the understanding ever buries itself deeper and
   deeper in the consideration and admiration of its divine object: for
   even as admiration has produced philosophy, and the attentive study of
   natural things, so it has also caused contemplation and mystical
   theology; and as this admiration when it is strong, keeps us out of
   ourselves and above ourselves by a lively attention and application of
   our understanding to heavenly things, it carries us consequently into
   ecstasy.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   OF THE SECOND SPECIES OF RAPTURE.

   God draws men's spirits unto him by his sovereign beauty and
   incomprehensible goodness, which two excellences are however but one
   supreme divinity, at once most singularly beautiful and good. Every
   thing is done for the good and for the beautiful, all things look
   towards them, are moved and stayed by them. The good and beautiful are
   desirable, agreeable, and dear to all, for them all things do and will
   whatsoever they do and will. And as for the beautiful, because it draws
   and recalls all things to itself, the Greeks give it a name which
   signifies recalling. [335]

   In like manner, as to good, its true image is light, especially because
   light collects, reduces and turns all things towards itself, whence the
   sun is named amongst the Greeks from a word [336] which shows that its
   influence causes all things to be drawn together and united, bringing
   together things dispersed; as goodness turns all things unto itself,
   being not only the sovereign unity, but sovereignly unitive, since all
   things desire it, as their principle, their preservation and their last
   end. So that in conclusion, the good and the beautiful is but one and
   the same thing, because all things desire the good and the beautiful.

   This discourse, Theotimus, is almost entirely composed of the words of
   the divine S. Denis the Areopagite; and certainly it is true that the
   sun, the source of corporeal light, is the true image of the good and
   the beautiful; for amongst merely corporeal creatures there is neither
   goodness nor beauty equal to that of the sun. Now the beauty and
   goodness of the sun consist in his light, without which nothing would
   be beautiful, nothing good, in this corporeal world. As beautiful he
   illuminates all, as good he heats and quickens all: insomuch as he is
   beautiful and bright, he draws unto himself all seeing eyes in the
   world; insomuch as he is good and gives heat, he gains unto himself all
   the appetites and inclinations of the corporeal world. For he extracts
   and draws up the exhalations and vapours, he draws and makes rise from
   their originals plants and living creatures; nor is there any
   production to which the vital heat of this great luminary does not
   contribute. So God, Father of all light, sovereignly good and
   beautiful, draws our understanding by his beauty to contemplate him,
   and draws our will by his goodness to love him. As beautiful,
   replenishing our understanding with delight, he pours his love into our
   wills; as good, filling our wills with his love, he excites our
   understanding to contemplate him,--love provoking us to contemplation,
   and contemplation to love: whence it follows that ecstasies and
   raptures depend wholly on love, for it is love that carries the
   understanding to contemplation and the will to union: so that, finally,
   we must conclude with the great S. Denis, that divine love is ecstatic,
   not permitting lovers to live to themselves, but to the thing beloved:
   for which cause the admirable Apostle S. Paul, being possessed of this
   divine love, and participating in its ecstatic power, said with
   divinely inspired mouth: I live, now not I, but Christ liveth in me.
   [337] As a true lover gone out of himself into God, he lived now not
   his own life, but the life of his beloved, as being sovereignly to be
   loved.

   Now this rapture of love happens in the will thus. God touches it with
   the attractions of his sweetness, and then, as the needle touched by
   the loadstone turns and moves towards the pole, forgetful of its
   insensible condition, so the will touched with heavenly love moves
   forward and advances itself towards God, leaving all its earthly
   inclinations, and by this means enters into a rapture, not of
   knowledge, but of fruition; not of admiration but of affection; not of
   science but of experience; not of sight but of taste and relish. It is
   true, as I have already signified, the understanding enters sometimes
   into admiration, seeing the sacred delight which the will takes in her
   ecstasy, as the will often takes pleasure to perceive the understanding
   in admiration, so that these two faculties interchange their
   ravishments; the view of beauty making us love it, and the love thereof
   making us view it. Rarely is a man warmed by the sunbeams without being
   illuminated, or illuminated without being warmed. Love easily makes us
   admire, and admiration easily makes us love. Still the two ecstasies,
   of the understanding and of the will, are not so essential to one
   another that the one may not very often be without the other; for as
   philosophers have had more knowledge than love of the Creator, so good
   Christians often have more love than knowledge, and consequently
   exceeding knowledge is not always followed by exceeding love, as I have
   remarked elsewhere. Now if the ecstasy of admiration be alone, we are
   not made better by it, according to what he said of it who had been
   lifted up in ecstasy into the third heaven. If I should know, said he,
   all mysteries, and all knowledge,--and have not charity, I am nothing;
   [338] and therefore the evil spirit can put into an ecstasy, if we may
   so say, and ravish the understanding by proposing unto it wonders which
   hold it suspended and elevated above its natural forces, and further,
   by such lights he can give the will some kind of vain, soft, tender and
   imperfect love, by way of sensible complacency, satisfaction and
   consolation. But to give the true ecstasy of the will, whereby it is
   solely and powerfully joined unto the divine goodness, appertains only
   to that sovereign Spirit by whom the charity of God is spread abroad in
   our hearts. [339]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [335] to kalon [Tr.]

   [336] helios [Tr.]

   [337] Gal. ii. 20

   [338] 1 Cor. xiii. 2.

   [339] Rom. v. 5.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   OF THE SIGNS OF GOOD RAPTURE, AND OF THE THIRD SPECIES OF THE SAME.

   Indeed, Theotimus, there have been many in our age who believed, and
   others with them, that they were very frequently ravished by God in
   ecstasy, and yet in the end it was discovered that all were but
   diabolical illusions and operations. A certain priest in S. Augustine's
   time put himself into ecstasies whenever he pleased, singing or getting
   sung certain mournful and melancholy airs, and this only to content the
   curiosity of those who desired to view this spectacle. But what is most
   wonderful is, that his ecstasy went so far that he did not feel fire
   which was applied to him, till after he was come to himself; and yet if
   any one spoke somewhat loudly, and with a clear voice, he heard them as
   if from afar, and he had no respiration. The philosophers themselves
   acknowledged certain species of natural ecstasies, caused by a vehement
   application of the spirit to the consideration of high things:
   wherefore we must not think it strange if the devil, to play the ape,
   to beguile souls, to scandalize the weak, and to transform himself into
   an angel of light, cause raptures in certain souls who are not solidly
   instructed in solid piety.

   To the end, then, that one might discern divine ecstasies from human
   and diabolical, God's servants have left many teachings: but for my
   part, it will suffice for my purpose to propose to you two marks of the
   good and holy ecstasy. The one is, that sacred ecstasy never so much
   takes and affects the understanding as it does the will, which it
   moves, warms and fills with a powerful affection towards God. So that,
   if the ecstasy be more beautiful than good, more bright than warm, more
   speculative than affective, it is very doubtful, and deserving of
   suspicion. I do not say that one may not have raptures, yea prophetical
   visions, without charity: for, as I know well one may have charity
   without being ravished, or prophesying, so one may also be ravished and
   may prophesy without having charity: but I affirm that he who in his
   rapture has more light in the understanding to admire God, than heat in
   the will to love him, is to stand upon his guard; for it is to be
   feared that this ecstasy may be false, and may rather puff up the
   spirit than edify it, putting him indeed as Saul, Balaam, and Caiphas,
   amongst the prophets, yet still leaving him amongst the reprobate.

   The second mark of true ecstasy consists in the third species of
   ecstasy which we mentioned above, an ecstasy all holy, all worthy of
   love, the crown of the two others,--the ecstasy of act and life. The
   entire observance of God's commandments is not within the bounds of
   human strength, yet is it within the stretch of the instinct of the
   human spirit, as being most conformable to natural light and reason: so
   that living according to God's commandments, we are not therefore
   outside our natural inclination. Yet besides God's commandments, there
   are certain heavenly inspirations to the effecting of which it is not
   only requisite that God should raise us above our own strength, but
   also that he should draw us above our natural instincts and
   inclinations, because although these inspirations are not opposite to
   human reason, yet they exceed it, surpass it, and are placed above it,
   so that then we live not only a civil, honest, and Christian life, but
   a supernatural, spiritual, devout and ecstatic life, that is, a life
   which is in every way beyond and above our natural condition.

   Not to steal, not to lie, not to commit impurity, to pray to God, not
   to swear in vain, to love and honour one's father, not to kill,--is to
   live according to man's natural reason: but to forsake all our goods,
   to love poverty, to call her and to consider her a most delightful
   mistress, to repute reproaches, contempts, abjections, persecutions,
   martyrdoms, as felicities and beatitudes, to contain oneself within the
   terms of a most absolute chastity, and in fine to live, amidst the
   world and in this mortal life, contrary to all the opinions and maxims
   of the world, and against the current of the river of this life, by
   habitual resignations, renunciations, and abnegatioris of
   ourselves;--this is not to live in ourselves, but out of and above
   ourselves; and because no one is able to go out of himself in this
   manner above himself unless the eternal Father draw him, hence it is
   that this kind of life is a perpetual rapture, and a continual ecstasy
   of action and operation.

   You are dead, said the great Apostle to the Colossians, and your life
   is hid with Christ in God. [340] Death's effect is that the soul no
   longer lives in its body nor in the limits thereof. What then do these
   words of the Apostle mean, Theotimus: you are dead? it is as though he
   said: you no longer live in yourselves nor in the limits of your
   natural condition; your soul does not now live according to herself but
   above herself. The true nature of the phoenix lies in this, that by the
   help of the sunbeams, she annihilates her own life, to have a life more
   desirable and vigorous, hiding, as it were, her life under ashes.
   Silkworms change their being, and from worms become butterflies; bees
   are born worms, then become nymphs crawling on their feet, and at last
   they become flying bees. We do the same, Theotimus, if we are
   spiritual: for we forsake our natural life to live a more eminent life
   above ourselves, hiding all this new life in God with Jesus Christ, who
   alone sees, knows and bestows it. Our new life is heavenly love, which
   quickens and animates our soul, and this love is wholly hidden in God
   and divine things with Jesus Christ: for since (as the sacred Gospel
   text says), after our Saviour had shown himself for a little to his
   disciples as he rose up to heaven, thither above, he was at length
   environed with a cloud which took him and hid him from their
   view,--therefore Jesus Christ is hidden in heaven in God. Now Jesus
   Christ is our love, and our love is the life of our soul: therefore our
   life is hidden in God with Jesus Christ; and when Jesus Christ, who is
   our love, and consequently our spiritual life, shall appear, in the day
   of Judgment, we also shall appear with him in glory; that is, Jesus
   Christ our love will glorify us, communicating to us his felicity and
   splendour.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [340] Col. iii. 3.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   HOW LOVE IS THE LIFE OF THE SOUL, AND CONTINUATION OF THE DISCOURSE ON
   THE ECSTATIC LIFE.

   The soul is the first act and principle of all the vital movements of
   man, and, as Aristotle expresses it, the principle whereby we live,
   feel and understand: whence it follows, that we know the different
   kinds of life from the difference of movements; so much so, indeed,
   that animals when entirely without movement are entirely without life.
   Even so, Theotimus, love is the first act or principle of our devout or
   spiritual life, by which we live, feel and move: and our spiritual life
   is such as the movements of our love are, and a heart that has no
   movement nor affection, has no love; as on the contrary a heart
   possessed of love is not without affective movement. As soon therefore
   as we have set our affection upon Jesus Christ, we have consequently
   placed in him our spiritual life. But he is now hidden in God in
   heaven, as God was hidden in him while he was here below. Our life
   therefore is hidden in him, and when he shall appear in glory, our life
   and our love shall likewise appear with him in God. Hence S. Ignatius
   (Martyr) as S. Denis relates, said that his love was crucified, as
   though he would say: my natural and human love, with all the passions
   that depend on it, is nailed to the cross; I have put it to death as a
   mortal love, which made my heart live a mortal life; and as my Saviour
   was crucified and died according to his mortal life, so did I die with
   him upon the cross according to my natural love, which was the mortal
   life of my soul, to the end that I might rise again to the supernatural
   life of a love which, because it can be exercised in heaven, is
   consequently also immortal.

   When therefore we see a soul that has raptures in prayer, by which she
   goes out from and mounts above herself in God, and yet has no ecstasy
   in her life, that is, leads not a life elevated and united to God, by
   abnegation of worldly concupiscences, by mortification of natural wills
   and inclinations, by an interior sweetness, simplicity, humility, and
   above all by a continual charity;--believe, Theotimus, that all these
   raptures are exceedingly doubtful and dangerous; these are raptures fit
   to stir up men to admiration, but not to sanctify them. For what can it
   profit the soul to be ravished unto God by prayer, while in her life
   and conversation she is ravished by earthly, base and natural
   affections; to be above herself in prayer and below herself in life and
   operation, to be angelic in meditation and brutish in conversation? It
   is to halt on two sides, [341] to swear by the Lord and swear by
   Melchom. [342] In a word it is a true mark that such raptures and
   ecstasies are but operations and deceits of the evil spirit. Blessed
   are they who live a superhuman and ecstatic life, raised above
   themselves, though they may not be ravished above themselves in prayer.
   There are many saints in heaven who were never in ecstasy or rapture of
   contemplation. For how many martyrs and great saints do we see in
   history never to have had other privilege in prayer than that of
   devotion and fervour. But there was never saint who had not the ecstasy
   and rapture of life and operation, overcoming himself and his natural
   inclinations.

   And who sees not, I pray you, Theotimus, that it is the ecstasy of life
   and operation that the great Apostle principally speaks of when he
   says: I live now, not I, but Christ liveth in me; [343] for he himself
   explains it in other terms to the Romans, saying that: Our old man is
   crucified with him, [344] that we are dead to sin with him, and that we
   are also risen with him to walk in newness of life, that we may serve
   sin no longer. Behold, Theotimus, how two men are represented in each
   of us, and consequently two lives; the one of the old man, which is an
   old life; like, they say, the eagle's, which having grown into old age
   can but drag its wings along, and is unable to take flight: the other
   is the life of the new man, which also is a new life, like that of the
   eagle, which, being disburdened of its old feathers, now shaken off
   into the sea, takes new ones, and having grown young again, flies in
   the newness of its strength.

   In the first life we live according to the old man, that is, according
   to the failings, weaknesses and infirmities contracted by the sin of
   our first father, Adam; and therefore we live to Adam's sin, and our
   life is a mortal life, yea death itself. In the second life we live
   according to the new man, that is, according to the graces, favours,
   ordinances and wills of our Saviour, and consequently, we live to
   salvation and redemption, and this new life is a lively, living and
   life-giving life. But whosoever would attain the new life, must make
   his way by the death of the old, crucifying his flesh with the vices
   and concupiscences [345] thereof, burying it under the waters of holy
   baptism or penance: as Naaman drowned and buried in the waters of
   Jordan his leprous and infected old life, to live a new, sound, and
   spotless life; for one might well have said of him, that he was not now
   the old, leprous, corrupt, infected Naaman, but a new, clean, sound,
   and honourable Naaman, because he was dead to leprosy and was living to
   health and cleanness.

   Now whosoever is raised up again to this new life of our Saviour,
   neither lives to himself, nor for himself, but to his Saviour, in his
   Saviour, and for his Saviour. So you also reckon, says S. Paul, that
   you are dead to sin but alive unto God, in Christ Jesus our Lord. [346]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [341] 3 Kings xviii. 21.

   [342] Soph. i. 5.

   [343] Gal. ii. 20.

   [344] Rom. vi. 6.

   [345] Gal. v. 24.

   [346] Rom. vi. 11
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   AN ADMIRABLE EXHORTATION OF S. PAUL TO THE ECSTATIC AND SUPERHUMAN
   LIFE.

   But finally, methinks S. Paul makes the most forcible, pressing and
   admirable argument that ever was made, to urge us all to the ecstasy
   and rapture of life and operation. Hear, Theotimus, I beseech you; be
   attentive and weigh the force and efficacy of the ardent and heavenly
   words of this Apostle, ravished and transported with the love of his
   Master. Speaking then of himself (and the like is to be said of
   everyone), the charity, says he, of Christ presseth us. [347] Yes,
   Theotimus, nothing so much presses man's heart as love; if a man know
   that he is beloved, be it by whom it may, he is pressed to love in his
   turn. But if a common man be beloved by a great lord, he is much more
   pressed; and if by a great monarch, how much more yet? And now, I pray
   you, knowing well that Jesus Christ, the true eternal God omnipotent,
   has loved us even to suffering death for us, and the death of the cross
   is----not this, O my dear Theotimus, to have our hearts under the
   press, and to feel them strongly pressed, and to feel love pressed out
   of them by violence and constraint, which is so much the more violent
   by how much it is more lovable and beloved! But how does this divine
   lover press us? The charity of Christ presseth us, says his holy
   Apostle, judging this. What means that judging this? It means that our
   Saviour's charity presses us then especially when we judge, consider,
   ponder, meditate, and attend to, the resolution of this question which
   faith gives. And what resolution? Mark, my good Theotimus, how he
   proceeds, graving, fixing and stamping his conception on our hearts.
   Judging this, says he; and what? That if one died for all, then all
   were dead, and Jesus Christ died for all. It is true, indeed: if one
   Jesus Christ died for all, all then are dead in the person of this only
   Saviour who died for them, and his death is to be imputed unto them,
   since it was endured for them and in consideration of them.

   But what follows from this? Methinks I hear that apostolic mouth, as
   with a peal of thunder startling the ears of our hearts! That follows
   then, O Christians, which Jesus Christ dying for us desired of us. And
   what did he desire of us but that we should be conformed unto him, to
   the end, says the Apostle, that those who live may not now live to
   themselves, but unto him who died for them, and rose again. True God!
   Theotimus, how powerful a consequence is this in the matter of love!
   Jesus Christ died for us; by his death he has given us life; we only
   live because he died; he died for us, as ours, and in us; our life then
   is no more ours, but his who has purchased it for us by his death: we
   are therefore no more to live to ourselves but to him, nor in ourselves
   but in him, nor for ourselves but for him. A maiden of the Isle of
   Sestos had brought up a young eagle with the care children are wont to
   bestow upon such affairs; the eagle being come to its full growth began
   little by little to fly and to chase birds, according to its natural
   instinct; then getting more strength it seized upon wild beasts, never
   failing faithfully to take home the prey to its dear mistress, as in
   acknowledgment of the bringing up which it had had from her. Now it
   happened upon a day that this young damsel died, while the poor eagle
   was on the hunt, and her body, according to the custom of that time and
   country, was publicly placed upon the funeral pile to be burnt; when
   even as the flame began to seize upon her the eagle came up with strong
   and eager flight, and, when it beheld this unlooked-for and sad
   spectacle, pierced with grief, it opened its talons, let fall its prey,
   and spread itself upon its poor beloved mistress; and covering her with
   its wings, as it were to defend her from the fire, or for pity's sake
   to embrace her, it remained there constant and immovable, courageously
   dying and burning with her; the ardour of its affection not giving way
   to flames and ardours of fire, that so it might become the victim and
   holocaust of its brave and prodigious love, as its mistress was of
   death and fire.

   O Theotimus! To what a high flight this eagle moves us! Our Saviour has
   bred us up from our tender youth, yea he formed us and received us as a
   loving nurse into the arms of his divine Providence, even from the
   instant of our conception.

   Not being yet, thy holy hand did make me;

   Scarce born, into thy arms thy love did take me.


   He made us his own by Baptism, and tenderly nourishes both our soul and
   our body with an incomprehensible love; to purchase us life he suffered
   death, he has fed us with his own flesh and blood. Ah! what remains
   then, my dear Theotimus, what conclusion are we to draw from this,
   except that those who live should live no more to themselves but to him
   that died for them: that is to say, that we should consecrate all the
   moments of our life to the divine love of our Saviour's death, bringing
   home to his glory all our prey, all our conquests, all our actions, all
   our thoughts, and all our affections. Let us behold him, Theotimus,
   this heavenly Redeemer, extended upon the cross as upon a funeral pile
   of honour, where he dies of love for us, yea of a love more dolorous
   than death itself, or a death more amorous than love itself. Ah! why do
   we not spiritually cast ourselves upon him to die upon the cross with
   him, who has truly willed to die for love of us? I will hold him,
   should we say, if we had the eagle's generosity, and will never depart
   from him. I will die with him and burn in the flames of his love, one
   and the same fire shall consume this divine Creator and his poor
   creature. My Jesus is wholly mine, and I am wholly his: I will live and
   die upon his breast, nor life nor death shall ever separate me from
   him. Thus then is made the holy ecstasy of true love, when, we live not
   according to human reason and inclinations, but above them, following
   the inspirations and instincts of the divine Saviour of our souls.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [347] 2 Cor. v. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   OF THE SUPREME EFFECT OF AFFECTIVE LOVE, WHICH IS THE DEATH OF THE
   LOVERS; AND FIRST, OF SUCH AS DIED IN LOVE.

   Love is as strong as death. [348] Death separates the soul of him who
   dies from the body, and from all the things of the world; sacred love
   separates the soul of the lover from his body and from all the things
   of the world: nor is there any other difference, saving that death does
   that in effect, which love ordinarily does only in affection. I say
   ordinarily, Theotimus, because holy love is sometimes so violent that
   it even actually causes a separation between the body and the soul;
   making the lovers die a most happy death, better than a hundred lives.

   As it is the special character of the reprobate that they die in sin,
   so of the elect it is, that they die in the love and grace of God. But
   still this happens in different ways. The just man never dies
   unprovidedly; for to have persevered in Christian justice even to the
   end, is to have well provided for death; but he does sometimes die of
   unexpected or sudden death. For this cause the all-wise Church does not
   make us pray in her Litanies that we may simply be delivered from
   sudden death, but from sudden and unprovided death. It is no worse for
   being sudden, if it be not also unprovided. If weak and ordinary souls
   had seen the fire from heaven fall upon the great S. Simeon Stylites's
   head and kill him, what would they have thought but thoughts of
   scandal? Yet ought we to have no other thought than that this great
   saint, having most perfectly immolated himself to God in his heart, and
   being already wholly consumed with love, the fire came from heaven to
   perfect the holocaust and entirely consume it; for the Abbot Julian,
   being a day's journey off, saw his soul ascend to heaven, and thereupon
   caused incense to be offered in thanksgiving to God. The Blessed
   Homobonus of Cremona, on a certain day hearing Mass on his knees with
   extreme devotion, rose not at the Gospel according to custom, whence
   those that were about him, looked at him, and perceived that he was
   dead. There have been in our time men most famous for virtue and
   learning, found dead, some in a confessional, others while hearing a
   sermon: yea some have been seen to fall down dead at their going out of
   the pulpit, where they had preached with great fervour; and all these
   deaths were sudden, yet not unprovided. And how many good people do we
   see die in apoplexy, in a lethargy, and a thousand other ways, very
   suddenly? And others die in delirium and madness, out of the use of
   reason; and all these, together with children who are baptized, die in
   grace and consequently in the love of God. But how could they die in
   the love of God, since they did not even think of God at the time of
   their departure?

   Learned men, Theotimus, lose not their knowledge while they are asleep;
   otherwise they would be unlearned at their awaking, and have to return
   to school. The like it is in all the habits of prudence, temperance,
   faith, hope and charity; they are ever within the just man's heart,
   though they are not always in action. While a man sleeps it seems that
   all his habits sleep with him, and when he awakes awake with him; so a
   just man dying suddenly, whether crushed by a house falling upon him,
   or killed by thunder, or stifled by an effusion on the lungs, or dying
   out of his senses by the violence of a burning fever, dies not indeed
   in the exercise of holy love, yet he dies in the habit thereof.
   Whereupon the wise man says: The just man, if he be prevented with
   death, shall be in rest: [349] for to obtain eternal life it suffices
   to die in the state and habit of love and charity.

   Many saints, however, have departed this life not only in charity and
   with the habit of heavenly love, but even in the act and practice
   thereof. S. Augustine died in the exercise of holy contrition, which
   cannot be without love: S. Jerome exhorting his dear children to the
   love of God, of their neighbour, and of virtue: S. Ambrose in a
   rapture, sweetly discoursing with his Saviour, immediately after he had
   received the holy Sacrament of the altar: S. Antony of Padua after he
   had recited a hymn to the glorious Virgin-mother, and while talking
   joyously with our Saviour: S. Thomas Aquinas joining his hands,
   elevating his eyes towards heaven, raising his voice very high, and
   pronouncing by way of ejaculation with great fervour, these words of
   the Canticles (the last which he had expounded): Come my beloved, let
   us go forth into the field, let us abide in the villages. [350] All the
   Apostles and almost all the Martyrs died in prayer. The Blessed and
   Venerable Bede having foreknown by revelation the time of his
   departure, went to Vespers (and it was Ascension day), and standing
   upright, leaning only on the elbows of his stall, without any disease
   at all, ended his life at the same instant that he ended his singing of
   Vespers, as it were directly to follow his Master ascending unto
   heaven, there to enjoy the fair morning of eternity, which has no
   Vesper. [351] John Gerson, Chancellor of the University of Paris, a man
   so learned and pious that, as Sixtus Senensis says, one can hardly
   discern whether his learning surpassed his piety, or his piety his
   learning, having expounded the fifty properties of divine love
   mentioned in the Canticle of Canticles, three days afterwards, having a
   face and heart full of life, expired pronouncing and repeating many
   times, by way of ejaculatory prayer, these holy words, drawn out of the
   same Canticles: O God! thy love is strong as death. S. Martin, as
   everyone knows, died so attentive to the exercise of devotion, that
   more could not be. S. Louis, that great king amongst saints, and great
   saint amongst kings, being struck with the plague, never ceased to
   pray; and then, having received the divine Viaticum, spreading out his
   arms in form of a cross, his eyes fixed upon heaven, yielded up the
   ghost, ardently sighing out these words with a perfect confidence of
   love: I will come into thy house; I will worship towards thy holy
   temple and I will give glory to thy name. [352] S. Peter Celestine,
   being wholly steeped in cruel afflictions which can scarce be
   described, having reached the end of his days, began to sing, as a
   sacred swan, the last of the psalms, and ended his song and his life
   with these amorous words: Let every spirit praise the Lord. The
   admirable S. Eusebia, surnamed the stranger, died on her knees and in
   fervent prayer, S. Peter Martyr, writing with his finger and in his own
   blood the confession of the faith for which he died, and uttering these
   words: Lord, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and the great Apostle
   of the Japanese, S. Francis Xavier, holding and kissing the image of
   the crucifix, and repeating at every kiss these ejaculations of his
   soul: "O Jesus! the God of my heart!"

     __________________________________________________________________

   [348] Cant. viii. 6.

   [349] Wis. iv. 7.

   [350] Cant. vii. 11.

   [351] S. Francis's account of this blessed death is not strictly
   according to history. We cannot ascertain what Life of Venerable Bede
   he used (Tr.).

   [352] Pss. v. 8; cxxxvii. 2.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   OF THOSE WHO DIED BY AND FOR DIVINE LOVE.

   All the Martyrs, Theotimus, died for the love of God; for when we say
   that some of them died for the faith, we mean not that they died for a
   dead faith, but for the living faith, that is, quickened by charity.
   And again the confession of faith is not so much an act of the
   understanding and of faith, as an act of the will and of the love of
   God. And this is why the great S. Peter, keeping the faith in his soul
   on the day of the passion, yet lost charity, refusing in words to
   profess him to be his Master, whom in his heart he acknowledged to be
   such. But there were yet other Martyrs who died expressly for charity
   alone, as our Saviour's great Precursor, who was martyred for fraternal
   correction; and the glorious princes of the Apostles, S. Peter and S.
   Paul, and particularly S. Paul, died for having reclaimed those women
   to a pious and pure life whom the infamous Nero had led into sin. The
   holy Bishops Stanislaus and Thomas of Canterbury were slain for a
   matter that touched not faith, but charity. In fine a great part of the
   sacred Virgin-martyrs were slain for the zeal they had to preserve
   their chastity, which charity had caused them to dedicate to their
   heavenly spouse.

   But some sacred lovers so absolutely give themselves over to the
   exercises of divine love, that this holy fire wastes and consumes their
   life. Grief does sometimes so long hinder the afflicted from eating,
   drinking, or sleeping, that in the end weakened and wasted they die;
   whence it is commonly said that such die of grief: but it is not so
   indeed; for they die through failure of strength, and inanition. Yet
   since this failure came through grief, we must allow that though they
   died not of grief, they died by reason of grief and by grief. So, my
   dear Theotimus, when the fervour of holy love is great, it gives so
   many assaults to the heart, so often wounds it, causes in it so many
   languors, melts it so habitually, and puts it so frequently into
   ecstasies and raptures, that by this means, the soul, almost entirely
   occupied in God, not being able to afford sufficient assistance to
   nature to effect digestion and nourish itself properly, the animal and
   vital spirits begin little by little to fail, life is shortened, and
   death takes place.

   O God! Theotimus, how happy this death is! How delightful is this
   love-dart, which, wounding us with the incurable wound of heavenly
   love, makes us for ever pining and sick, with so strong a beating of
   the heart, that at length we must yield to death. How much, do you
   think, did these sacred languors and labours undergone for charity,
   advance the days of the divine lovers S. Catharine of Siena, S.
   Francis, young Stanislaus Kotska, S. Charles, and many hundreds more
   who died so young? Verily, as for S. Francis, from the time that he
   received the holy stigmata of his master, he had such violent and sharp
   pains, pangs, convulsions and illnesses, that he became mere skin and
   bone, and he seemed rather to be a skeleton, or a picture of death,
   than a man yet living and breathing.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   HOW SOME OF THE HEAVENLY LOVERS DIED ALSO OF LOVE.

   All the elect then, Theotimus, died in the habit of holy love; but
   further, some died even in the exercise of it, others for this love,
   and others by this same love. But what belongs to the sovereign degree
   of love is, that some die of love; and then it is that love not only
   wounds the soul, so as to make her languish, but even pierces her
   through, delivering its blow right in the middle of the heart, and so
   fatally, that it drives the soul out of the body;--which happens thus.
   The soul, powerfully drawn by the divine sweetness of her beloved, to
   correspond on her side with his sweet attractions, forcibly and to the
   best of her power springs out towards this longed-for beloved who
   attracts her, and, not being able to draw her body after her, rather
   than stay with it in this miserable life, she quits it and gets clear;
   flying alone, as a fair dove, into the delicious bosom of her heavenly
   spouse. She throws herself upon her beloved, and her beloved draws and
   ravishes her to himself. And as the bridegroom leaves father and mother
   to cleave to his dearly beloved, so this chaste bride forsaketh the
   flesh to unite herself to her beloved. Now this is the most violent
   effect of love in a soul, and one which requires first a great
   offstripping of all such affections as keep the heart attached either
   to the world or to the body, so that as fire, having by little and
   little separated an essence from its mass, and wholly purified it, at
   length brings out the quintessence,--even so holy love having withdrawn
   man's heart from all humours, inclinations, and passions, as far as may
   be, does at length urge out the soul, to the end that by this death,
   precious in the divine eyes, she may pass to eternal glory.

   The great S. Francis, who in this subject of heavenly love ever returns
   before my eyes, could not possibly escape dying by love, because of the
   manifold and great languors, ecstasies and faintings which his love of
   God gave him; but besides this, God, who had set him forth to the view
   of the whole world as a miracle of love, willed that he should not only
   die for love but also of love. For consider, I beseech you, Theotimus,
   his death. Perceiving himself upon the point of his departure, he
   caused himself to be laid naked upon the ground, where having received
   as an alms a habit which they put on him, he discoursed to his
   brethren, animating them to the love of God and the Church, had our
   Saviour's passion read, and then with an extreme fervour began Psalm
   cxli.: I cried to the Lord with my voice; with my voice I made
   supplication to the Lord; and having pronounced these last words: Bring
   my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name; the just wait for
   me, until thou reward me, he died,--in his forty-fifth year. Who sees
   not, I beseech you, Theotimus, that this seraphical man who had so
   earnestly desired to be martyred and to die for love, died in the end
   of love, as in another place I have described?

   S. Magdalen having for the space of thirty years lived in a cave which
   is yet to be seen in Provence, having seven times each day bad raptures
   and been borne up in the air by angels, as though she went to sing the
   seven canonical hours in their choir; in the end, upon a Sunday, she
   came to Church, where her dear Bishop, S. Maximin, finding her in
   contemplation, her eyes full of tears and her arms stretched out,
   communicated her, and soon afterwards she delivered up her blessed
   soul, which once again, for good and all, went to her Saviour's feet,
   to enjoy the better part, which she had already made choice of here
   below.

   S. Basil had contracted a strict friendship with a physician, a Jew by
   nation and religion, with the intention of bringing him to the faith of
   Jesus Christ, which nevertheless he could not effect till such time as,
   worn out with fastings, watchings and labours, being upon the point of
   dying, he inquired of the physician what opinion he had of him,
   conjuring him to speak frankly. The physician did so, and having felt
   his pulse:--there is no further remedy, said he; before the sun sets
   you will depart this life. But what will you say, replied the patient,
   if to-morrow I shall be alive? I will become a Christian, I promise
   you, said the physician. With this the saint prayed to God, and
   obtained a prolongation of his own temporal life, for the good of his
   physician's spiritual life, who having seen this miracle was converted,
   and S. Basil rising courageously out of his bed, went to the Church and
   baptized him with all his family, then returning to his chamber and to
   his bed, having entertained himself a good space with our Saviour in
   prayer, he holily exhorted the assistants to serve God with their whole
   heart, and finally, seeing the angels approach, and pronouncing with an
   extreme delight these words: O God I recommend unto thee my soul, and
   restore it into thy hands; he died. But the poor converted physician
   seeing him thus pass away, embracing him, and melting into tears over
   him:--"O great Basil, said he, indeed if thou hadst willed thou wouldst
   no more have died to-day than yesterday." Who does not see that this
   death was wholly of love? And the Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa of Jesus
   revealed after her death that she died of an impetuous assault of love,
   which had been so violent that nature not being able to support it, the
   soul had departed towards the beloved object of its affections.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   MARVELLOUS HISTORY OF THE DEATH OF A GENTLEMAN WHO DIED OF LOVE ON
   MOUNT OLIVET.

   Besides what I have said, I have found a history which to sacred lovers
   is none the less credible for being wonderful, since, as the holy
   Apostle says: Charity willingly believeh all things; [353] that is, it
   is not quick to believe that any one is lying, and if there are no
   apparent marks of falsehood in things which are told, it makes no
   difficulty about believing them; but above all when they are things
   which exalt and magnify the love of God towards men, or the love of men
   towards God, for charity, which is sovereign queen of the virtues,
   rejoices in the things which contribute to the glory of its empire and
   domination. And although the account I am about to give is not so fully
   published nor so well witnessed as the greatness of the marvel which it
   contains would require, it does not therefore lose its truth; for, as
   S. Augustine excellently says, miracles, magnificent as they may be,
   are scarcely known in the very place where they are worked; and even
   when they are related by those who have seen them, they are with
   difficulty believed, but they do not therefore cease to be true; and,
   in matter of religion, good souls have more sweetness in believing
   things in which there is more difficulty and admiration.

   Upon a time, then, a very illustrious and virtuous knight went beyond
   seas to Palestine, to visit the holy places in which Our Lord had done
   the works of our redemption; and, properly to begin this holy exercise,
   before everything he worthily confessed and communicated. Then he went
   first to the town of Nazareth, where the angel announced to the most
   holy Virgin the most sacred Incarnation, and where the most adorable
   conception of the Eternal Word took place; and there this good pilgrim
   set himself to contemplate the abyss of the heavenly goodness, which
   had deigned to take human flesh in order to withdraw men from
   perdition. Thence he passed to Bethlehem, to the place of the Nativity,
   and one could not say how many tears there he shed, contemplating those
   with which the Son of God, little infant of the Virgin, had watered
   that holy stable, kissing and kissing again a hundred times that sacred
   earth, and licking the dust on which the first infancy of the divine
   Babe had been received. From Bethlehem he went to Bethabara, and passed
   as far as the little place of Bethania, when, remembering that Our Lord
   had unclothed himself to be baptized, he also unclothed himself, and
   entering into the Jordan, and bathing in it, and drinking of the waters
   thereof, it seemed to him as if he saw his Saviour receiving baptism
   from the hand of his precursor, and the Holy Ghost descending upon him
   in the form of a dove, with the heavens yet opened, while from them
   seemed to him to come the voice of the Eternal Father, saying: This is
   my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. From Bethania he goes into
   the desert, and there sees with the eyes of his Spirit the Saviour
   fasting, and fighting and conquering the enemy, then the angels
   ministering to him admirable meats. Thence he goes up to Mount Thabor,
   where he sees the Saviour transfigured, then to Mount Sion, where he
   seems to see Our Lord still on his knees in the supper-room, washing
   the disciples' feet, and afterwards distributing to them his divine
   body in the sacred Eucharist. He passes the torrent of Cedron, and goes
   to the Garden of Gethsemani, where his heart melts into the tears of a
   most loving sorrow, while he there represents to himself his dear
   Saviour sweating blood, in that extreme agony, which he suffered there,
   to be soon afterwards bound fast with cords and led into Jerusalem;
   whither he goes also, following everywhere the footprints of his
   beloved, and in imagination sees him dragged hither and thither, to
   Annas, to Caiphas, to Pilate, to Herod, scourged, blindfolded, spat
   upon, crowned with thorns, presented to the people, condemed to death,
   loaded with his cross--which he carries, and while carrying it has the
   pitiful meeting with his mother all steeped in grief, and with the
   daughters of Jerusalem who weep over him. He ascends at last, this
   devout pilgrim, to Mount Calvary, when he sees in spirit the cross laid
   upon the earth, and our Saviour, stript naked, thrown down and nailed
   hands and feet upon it, most cruelly. He contemplates then how they
   raise the cross and the Crucified into the air, and the blood which
   streams from all parts of this ruined divine body. He regards the poor
   sacred Virgin, quite transpierced with the sword of sorrow; then he
   turns his eyes on the crucified Saviour, whose seven words he hears
   with a matchless love, and at last he sees him dying, then dead, then
   receiving the lance-stroke, and showing by the opening of the wound his
   divine heart, then taken down from the cross and carried to the
   sepulchre, whither he follows him, shedding a sea of tears on the
   places moistened with the blood of his Redeemer. And so he enters into
   the sepulchre and buries his heart by the body of his divine Master;
   then, rising again with him, he goes to Emmaus, and sees all that
   passes between the Lord and the two disciples; and at last returning to
   Mount Olivet, where the mystery of the Ascension took place, and there
   seeing the last marks and vestiges of the feet of the Divine Saviour,
   prostrate upon them, and kissing them a thousand thousand times, with
   sighs of an infinite love, he began to draw up to himself all the
   forces of his affections, as an archer draws the string of his bow when
   he wishes to shoot his arrow, then rising, his eyes and his hands
   turned to heaven: O Jesus! said he, my sweet Jesus! I know no more
   where to seek and follow thee on earth. Ah! Jesus, Jesus, my love,
   grant then to this heart that it may follow thee and go after thee
   thither above. And with these ardent words, he at the same moment shot
   his soul into heaven, a sacred arrow which as an archer of God he
   directed into the central-white of his most blessed mark. But his
   companions and servants who saw this poor lover fall suddenly thus as
   if dead, amazed at this accident, ran instantly for the doctor, who
   coming found that he had really passed away: and to make a safe
   judgment on the causes of so unexpected a death, he inquires of what
   temperament, of what manners, and of what feelings, the deceased might
   be; and he learned that he was of a disposition very sweet, very
   amiable, wondrously devout, and most ardent in the love of God.
   Whereupon the doctor said: Without doubt, then, his heart has broken
   with excess and fervour of love. And in order the better to confirm his
   decision, he would have him opened, and found that glorious heart open,
   with this sacred word engraved within it: Jesus my love! Love, then,
   did in this heart the office of death, separating the soul from the
   body, no other cause concurring. And it is S. Bernardine of Siena, a
   very wise and very holy doctor, who makes this relation in the first of
   his Sermons on the Ascension.

   Indeed, another author of nearly the same age, who has concealed his
   name out of humility, but who is worthy to be named, in a book which he
   has entitled: Mirror of Spiritual Persons, relates a history even more
   admirable. For he says that in the parts of Provence there was a
   nobleman entirely devoted to the love of God and to the devotion of the
   Most Holy Sacrament of the Altar. Now one day, being extremely
   afflicted with a malady which caused him continual vomitings, the
   divine communion was brought him; and not daring to receive it on
   account of the danger of casting it up again, he begged his pastor to
   apply it at least to his breast, and with it to make the sign of the
   cross over him. This was done, and in a moment his breast, inflamed
   with holy love, was cleft, and drew into itself the heavenly food
   wherein his beloved was contained, and at the same instant gave up its
   breath. I see in good truth that this history is extraordinary, and
   would deserve a more weighty testimony: yet after the true history of
   the cleft heart of S. Clare of Montefalco, which all the world may see
   even to this day, and that of the stigmata of S. Francis, which is most
   certain, my soul finds nothing hard to be believed amongst the effects
   of divine love.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [353] 1 Cor. xiii. 7.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   THAT THE MOST SACRED VIRGIN MOTHER OF GOD DIED OF LOVE FOR HER SON.

   One can hardly well doubt that the great S. Joseph died before the
   passion and death of our Saviour, who otherwise would not have
   commended his mother to S. John. And how can one then imagine that the
   dear child of his heart, his beloved foster-child, did not assist him
   at the hour of his departure? Blessed are the merciful for they shall
   obtain mercy. Ah! how much sweetness, charity and mercy, did this good
   foster-father use towards our Saviour, when he was born a little child
   in the world! And who can then believe but that, at his departure out
   of it, this divine child rendered him the like a hundred-fold, filling
   him with heavenly delights? Storks are the true representation of the
   mutual piety of children towards their parents and of parents towards
   their children: for, being birds of passage, they bear their old
   parents with them in their journey, as their parents had borne them
   while they were yet young, on the like occasions. While our Saviour was
   yet a little child, the great S. Joseph his foster-father, and the most
   glorious Virgin his mother, had many times carried him, but especially
   in their journey from Judea to Egypt, and from Egypt to Judea. Ah! who
   then can doubt that this holy father being come to the end of his days,
   was reciprocally carried by his divine foster-child, in the passage
   from this to another life, into Abraham's bosom, to be translated
   thence into his own, into glory, on the day of his Ascension? A saint
   who had loved so much in his life, could not die but of love; for his
   heart not being able to love his dear Jesus as much as he desired while
   he continued amongst the distractions of this life, and having already
   performed the duty which was required in the childhood of Jesus, what
   remained but that he should say to the eternal Father: O Father, I have
   finished the work which thou gavest me to do: [354] and then to the
   Son, O my child! as thy heavenly Father put thy tender body into my
   hands the day of thy coming into this world, so do I render up my soul
   into thine, this day of my departure out of the world.

   Such, as I conceive, was the death of this great patriarch, a man
   elected to perform the most tender and loving offices that ever were or
   shall be performed to the Son of God, save those that were done by his
   sacred spouse, the true natural mother of the said Son. Now of her it
   is not possible to imagine that she died of any other kind of death
   than of love, the noblest of deaths, and consequently due to the
   noblest life that ever was amongst creatures: a death of which the very
   angels would desire to die, if die they could. If the primitive
   Christians were said to have but one heart and one soul, by reason of
   their perfect mutual love, if S. Paul lived not in himself, but Jesus
   Christ lived in him, by reason of the close union of his heart to his
   Master's, whereby his soul was as it were dead in his heart which it
   animated, to live in the heart of the Saviour which it loved,--O true
   God! how much more really had the sacred virgin and her son but one
   soul, one heart and one life, so that this heavenly mother, living,
   lived not, but her son lived in her! 'Twas a mother the most loving and
   the most beloved that ever could be, yea loving and beloved with a love
   incomparably more eminent than that of all the orders of angels and
   men, as the names of mother-only and only-son, are names passing all
   other names in matter of love. And I say mother-only and only-son,
   because all the other sons of men divide the acknowledgment of their
   production between their father and mother; but in this son, as all his
   human birth depended on his mother alone, who alone contributed that
   which was requisite to the virtue of the Holy Ghost for the conception
   of this heavenly child, so to her alone all the love which sprang from
   that production was due and rendered: wherefore this son and this
   mother were united in a union by so much more excellent, as her name is
   excellent in love above all other names. For which of all the seraphim
   can say to our Saviour: Thou art my true son, and I love thee as my
   true son? And to which of all his creatures did our Saviour ever say:
   Thou art my true mother, and as my true mother I love thee: thou art my
   true mother, entirely mine, and I am thy true son wholly thine? If then
   a loving servant durst say, and did say, that he had no other life than
   his master's--Ah! how confidently and fervently might this mother
   exclaim: I have no life but the life of my son, my life is wholly in
   his, and his wholly in mine; for it was no longer union but unity of
   hearts between this mother and this son.

   And if this mother lived her son's life, she also died her son's death.
   The phoenix, as report goes, grown very aged, gathers together on the
   top of a mountain a quantity of aromatical wood, upon which, as upon
   its bed of honour, it goes to end its days: for when the sun, being at
   its highest, pours out its hottest beams, this sole bird, to contribute
   an increase of activity to the ardour of the sun, ceases not to beat
   with its wings upon its bed, till it has made it take fire, and burning
   with it is consumed, and dies in those odoriferous flames. In like
   manner, Theotimus, the virgin-mother, having collected in her spirit
   all the most beloved mysteries of the life and death of her son by a
   most lively and continual memory of them, and withal, ever receiving
   directly the most ardent inspirations which her child, the sun of
   justice, has cast upon human beings in the highest noon of his charity;
   and besides, making on her part also, a perpetual movement of
   contemplation, at length the sacred fire of this divine love consumed
   her entirely as a holocaust of sweetness, so that she died thereof, the
   soul being wholly ravished and transported into the arms of the
   dilection of her son. O, death, amorously life-giving! O, love, vitally
   death-giving!

   Several sacred lovers were present at the death of the Saviour, amongst
   whom those who had the most love had the most sorrow; for love was then
   all steeped in sorrow, and sorrow in love; and all they who for their
   Saviour were impassioned with love were in love with his passion and
   sorrow. But the sweet Mother, who loved more than all, was more than
   all transfixed with the sword of sorrow. The sorrow of the Son at that
   time was a piercing sword, which passed through the heart of the
   Mother, because that Mother's heart was glued, joined and united to her
   Son, with so perfect a union that nothing could wound the one without
   inflicting a lively torture upon the other. Now this maternal bosom,
   being thus wounded with love, not only did not seek a cure for its
   wound, but loved her wound more than all cure, dearly keeping the
   shafts of sorrow she had received, on account of the love which had
   shot them into her heart, and continually desiring to die of them,
   since her Son died of them, who, as say all the Holy Scriptures and all
   Doctors, died amidst the flames of his charity, a perfect holocaust for
   all the sins of the world.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [354] John xvii. 4.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   THAT THE GLORIOUS VIRGIN DIED BY AN EXTREMELY SWEET AND TRANQUIL DEATH.

   It is said on the one side that Our Lady revealed to S. Mechtilde that
   the malady of which she died was no other thing than an impetuous
   assault of divine love; but S. Bridget and S. John Damascene testify
   that she died an extremely peaceful death: and both statements are
   true, Theotimus.

   The stars are marvellously beautiful to see, and send forth a fair
   light; but, if you have taken notice, it is by flushes of light, by
   sparks and flashes, that they produce their rays, as if they brought
   forth light with effort, at distinct intervals; whether it is because
   their feebler light cannot so continuously shine with evenness, or
   because our weak eyes do not allow us a constant and firm view of them,
   on account of the great distance there is between them and our eyes. In
   the same way, generally speaking, the saints who died of love felt a
   great variety of accidents and symptoms of love, before it brought them
   to death; many sudden movement, many assaults, many ecstasies, many
   languors, many agonies; and it seemed that their love with many renewed
   efforts brought forth their blessed death: this happened on account of
   the weakness of their love, not yet absolutely perfect, which could not
   continue its loving with an even fervour.

   But it was quite otherwise with the most holy Virgin. For, as we see
   the lovely dawning of day grow, not at intervals and by shocks, but by
   a certain dilating and continuous brightening, which is almost
   insensibly perceptible, so that we truly see it grow in clearness, but
   so evenly that no one perceives any interruption, separation or
   discontinuance in its growing;--thus divine love grew at each moment in
   the virginal heart of our glorious Lady, but by sweet, peaceable and
   continuous growths, without any agitation, or shock, or violence. Ah!
   no, Theotimus, we must not suppose an impetuosity of agitation in this
   celestial love of the maternal heart of the Virgin; for love, of
   itself, is sweet, gracious, peaceful and tranquil. If it sometimes
   deliver assaults, if it give shocks to the spirit, this is because it
   finds resistance there: but when the passages of the soul are opened to
   it without opposition or contradiction, it makes its progress
   peaceably, with an incomparable sweetness. It was so, then, that holy
   love employed its force in the virginal heart of the sacred Mother,
   without effort of violent impetuosity, because it found no resistance
   or hindrance whatever. For as we see great rivers boil and leap, with a
   mighty roaring, in rough places where the rocks make shoals and reefs
   to oppose and prevent the flowing of the waters, but, on the contrary,
   finding themselves on the plain, sweetly glide and flow without
   effort;--so divine love, finding in human souls some hindrance and
   resistance (as in truth all have in some degree, though differently),
   does violence there, combating bad inclinations, striking the heart,
   pushing the will by divers agitations and various efforts to get room
   for itself, or at least to pass these obstacles. But in the sacred
   Virgin, everything favoured and seconded the course of heavenly love;
   its progress and increase were incomparably greater than in all other
   creatures, yet a progress infinitely sweet, peaceful and tranquil. No,
   she swooned not away, either with love or with compassion, by the cross
   of her Son, although she then experienced the most ardent and painful
   attack of love that can be imagined: for although the attack was
   extreme, yet, at the same time, it was at once equally strong and
   gentle, mighty and tranquil, active and peaceful, consisting in a heat
   which was sharp but sweet.

   I am not saying, Theotimus, that in the soul of the most holy Virgin
   there were not two portions, and consequently two appetites, one
   according to the spirit and superior reason, the other according to the
   senses and inferior reason, so that she could feel repugnances and
   contradictions of the one to the other appetite, for this burden was
   felt even by her Son;--but I say that in this celestial Mother all the
   affections were so well ranged and ordered, that divine love exercised
   in her its empire and domination most peaceably, without being troubled
   by the diversity of wills and appetites, or by the contradiction of the
   senses, because neither the repugnances of the natural appetite nor the
   movements of the senses ever went as far as sin, not even as far as
   venial sin; but, on the contrary, all was employed holily and
   faithfully in the service of holy love, for the exercise of the other
   virtues, which, for the most part, cannot be practised save amid
   difficulties, oppositions and contradictions.

   Thorns, according to the vulgar opinion, are not only different from,
   but even contrary to, flowers; and it seems as if things would go
   better if there were none in the world: which has made S. Ambrose think
   that but for sin there would be none. But still, as here they are, the
   good husbandman renders them useful, making from them, about his fields
   and young trees, hedges and enclosures which serve as defence and
   rampart against cattle. So the glorious Virgin, having had a part in
   all human miseries, saving such as directly tend to sin, employed them
   most profitably for the exercise and increase of the holy virtues of
   fortitude, temperance, justice and prudence, poverty, humility,
   patience and compassion: so that these were so far from hindering, that
   they even assisted and strengthened heavenly love by continual
   exercises and advancements. And, in her, Magdalen is not distracted
   from the attention wherewith she receives from her Saviour the
   impressions of love, by all Martha's ardour and solicitude. She has
   made choice of her Son's love, and nothing deprives her of it.

   The loadstone, as every one knows, Theotimus, naturally draws iron unto
   it, by a secret and most wonderful virtue: yet five things there are
   which hinder this operation.  1°. A too great distance.  2°. A diamond
   interposed.  3°. If the iron be greased.  4°. If it be rubbed with an
   onion.  5°. If it be too weighty. Our heart is made for God, who
   continually allures it, never ceasing to throw into it the baits of his
   celestial love. But five things hinder the operation of his holy
   attraction.  1°. Sin, which puts us at a distance from God.  2°.
   Affection to riches.  3°. Sensual pleasures.  4°. Pride and vanity.
   5°. Self-love together with the multitude of inordinate passions which
   it brings forth, and which are to us an overcharging load which weighs
   us down. But none of these hindrances had place in the glorious
   Virgin's heart.  1°. She was ever preserved from all sin.  2°. Ever
   most poor in spirit.  3°. Ever most pure.  4°. Ever most humble.  5°.
   Ever peaceful mistress of all her passions, and totally exempt from the
   rebellion which self-love raises against the love of God. And therefore
   as iron, if clear of all obstacles and freed from its own weight, would
   be powerfully, yet gently and equably, drawn by the loadstone, in such
   sort, however, that the attraction would ever grow more active and
   forcible as they came nearer the one to the other, and the motion
   nearer to its end:--so the most holy Mother, having nothing in her
   which hindered the operation of the divine love of her Son, was united
   unto him in an incomparable union, by gentle ecstasies, without trouble
   or travail, ecstasies in which the sensible powers ceased not to
   perform their actions, without in any way disturbing the union of the
   spirit, as again the perfect application of her spirit did not much
   divert her senses. So that this Virgin's death was more sweet than
   could be imagined, her Son sweetly drawing her after the odour of his
   perfumes, and she most lovingly flowing out after their sacred
   sweetness even into the bosom of her Son's goodness. And although this
   holy soul extremely loved her most holy, most pure, and most
   love-worthy body, yet she forsook it without any pain or resistance; as
   the chaste Judith, though she greatly loved the weeds of penance and
   widowhood yet forsook them and freely put them off, to put on her
   marriage garments when she went to be victorious over Holofernes; or as
   Jonathan did when for the love of David he stripped himself of his
   garments. Love had given at the foot of the cross to this divine Spouse
   the supreme sorrows of death, and therefore it was reasonable that at
   length death should give her the sovereign delights of love.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK VIII.

   OF THE

   LOVE OF CONFORMITY, BY WHICH WE UNITE OUR WILL TO THE WILL OF GOD,
   SIGNIFIED UNTO US BY HIS COMMANDMENTS, COUNSELS AND INSPIRATIONS.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   OF THE LOVE OF CONFORMITY PROCEEDING FROM SACRED COMPLACENCY.

   As good ground having received the seed renders it back in its season a
   hundredfold, so the heart which has taken complacency in God cannot
   hinder itself from wishing to offer another complacency to God. No one
   pleases us but we desire to please him. Cool wine cools for a while
   those who drink it, but, as soon as it grows warm within the receiver,
   it reciprocally warms him, and the more heat is given to it, the more
   it gives back. True love is never ungrateful, but strives to please
   those in whom it finds its pleasure; and hence comes that loving
   conformity, which makes us such as those we love. The most devout and
   most wise King Solomon, became idolatrous and foolish when he loved
   women who were foolish and idolatrous, and served as many idols as his
   wives had. For this cause the Scripture terms those men effeminate who
   passionately love women as such, because love metamorphoses them from
   men into women, in manners and humours.

   Now this transformation is made insensibly by complacency, which having
   got entry into our heart brings forth another complacency, to give to
   him of whom we have received it. They say there is a little land animal
   in the Indies, which finds such pleasure with fishes and in the sea,
   that by often swimming with them it becomes a fish, and of an animal of
   the land becomes entirely an animal of the sea. So by often delighting
   in God we become conformed to God, and our will is transformed into
   that of the Divine Majesty, by the complacency which it takes therein.
   The example of those we love has a sweet and unperceived empire and
   insensible authority over us: it is necessary either to imitate or
   forsake them. He who, drawn by the sweetness of perfumes, enters a
   perfumer's shop, while receiving the pleasure which he takes in the
   smell of those odours, perfumes himself, and going out, communicates to
   others the pleasure which he has received, spreading amongst them the
   scent of perfumes which he has contracted. Our heart, together with the
   pleasure which it takes in the thing beloved, draws unto itself the
   quality thereof, for delight opens the heart, as sorrow closes it,
   whence the sacred holy Scripture often uses the word, dilate, instead
   of, rejoice. Now the heart being opened by pleasure, the impressions of
   the qualities on which the pleasure depends find easy passage into the
   spirit; and together with them such others also as are in the same
   subject, though disagreeable to us, creep in amid the throng of
   pleasures, as he that lacked his marriage garment got into the banquet
   amongst those that were adorned with it. So Aristotle's scholars took
   pains to stammer like him, and Plato's walked bent-backed in imitation
   of their master. In fine the pleasure which we take in a thing has a
   certain communicative power which produces in the lover's heart the
   qualities of the thing which pleases. And hence it is that holy
   complacency transforms us into God whom we love, and by how much
   greater the complacency, by so much the transformation is more perfect:
   thus the saints that loved ardently were speedily and perfectly
   transformed, love transporting and translating the manners and
   disposition of the one heart into the other.

   A strange yet a true thing! Place together two lutes which are in
   unison, that is, of the same sound and accord, and let one of them be
   played on:--the other though not touched will not fail to sound like
   that which is played on, the affinity which is between them, as by a
   natural love, causing this correspondence. We have a repugnance to
   imitate those we hate even in good things, nor would the Lacedæmonians
   follow the good counsel of a wicked man, unless some good man
   pronounced it after him. On the contrary, we cannot help conforming
   ourselves to what we love. In this sense, as I think, the great Apostle
   said that the law was not made for the just: [355] for in truth the
   just man is not just but insomuch as he has love, and if he have love
   there is no need to press him by the rigour of the law, love being the
   most pressing teacher and solicitor, to urge the heart which it
   possesses to obey the will and the intention of the beloved. Love is a
   magistrate who exercises his authority without noise, without
   pursuivants or sergeants, by that mutual complacency, by which, as we
   find pleasure in God, so also we desire to please him. Love is the
   abridgment of all theology; it made the ignorance of a Paul, an Antony,
   an Hilarion, a Simeon, a Francis, most holily learned, without books,
   masters or art. In virtue of this love, the spouse may say with
   assurance. My beloved is wholly mine, by the complacency wherewith he
   pleases and feeds me; and I, I am wholly his, by the benevolence
   wherewith I please and feed him again. My heart feeds on the pleasure
   it takes in him, and his on my taking pleasure in him for his own sake.
   As a holy shepherd he feeds me, his dear sheep, amidst the lilies of
   his perfections, in which I take pleasure; and I, as his dear sheep,
   feed him with the milk of my affections, by which I strive to please
   him. Whosoever truly takes pleasure in God desires faithfully to please
   God, and in order to please him, desires to conform himself to him.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [355] 1 Tim. i. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   OF THE CONFORMITY OF SUBMISSION WHICH PROCEEDS FROM THE LOVE OF
   BENEVOLENCE.

   Complacency then draws into us the traits of the divine perfections
   according as we are capable of receiving them, as the mirror receives
   the sun's image, not according to the excellence and amplitude of that
   great and admirable luminary, but in proportion to the capacity and
   measure of its glass: so that we thus become conformed to God.

   But besides this the love of benevolence brings us to this holy
   conformity by another way. The love of complacency draws God into our
   hearts, but the love of benevolence casts our hearts into God, and
   consequently all our actions and affections, most lovingly dedicating
   and consecrating them unto him: for benevolence desires to God all the
   honour, all the glory, and all the acknowledgment which it is possible
   to give him, as a certain exterior good which is due to his goodness.

   Now this desire is practised according to the complacency which we take
   in God, as follows. We have had an extreme complacency in perceiving
   that God is sovereignly good, and therefore by the love of benevolence
   we desire that all the loves which we can possibly imagine be employed
   to love this goodness properly. We have taken delight in the sovereign
   excellency of God's perfection, and thereupon we desire that he be
   sovereignly loved, honoured and adored. We have rejoiced to consider
   how God is not only the first beginning but also the last end, author,
   preserver, and Lord of all things, for which reason we desire that all
   things be subject to him by a sovereign obedience. We see God's will
   sovereignly perfect, right, just and equitable; and upon this
   consideration our desire is that it be the rule and sovereign law of
   all things, and that it be observed, kept and obeyed by all other
   wills.

   But note, Theotimus, that I treat not here of the obedience due unto
   God as he is our Lord and Master, our Father and Benefactor, for this
   kind of obedience belongs to the virtue of justice, not to love. No, it
   is not this I speak of at present, for though there were no hell to
   punish the rebellious, nor heaven to reward the good, and though we had
   no kind of obligation or duty to God (be this said by imagination of a
   thing impossible and scarce imaginable), yet would the love of
   benevolence move us to render all obedience and submission to God by
   election and inclination, yea by a sweet violence of love, in
   consideration of the sovereign goodness, justice and rectitude of his
   divine will.

   Do not we see, Theotimus, that a maiden by a free choice, which
   proceeds from the love of benevolence, subjects herself to her husband,
   to whom otherwise she owed no duty; or that a gentleman submits himself
   to a foreign prince's command, or, perhaps, gives up his will into the
   hands of the superior of some religious order which he may join? Even
   so is our heart conformed to God's, when by holy benevolence we throw
   all our affections into the hands of the divine will, to be turned and
   directed as it chooses, to be moulded and formed to its good liking.
   And in this point consists the profoundest obedience of love, which has
   no need to be spurred by menaces or rewards, nor by any law or any
   commandment; for it foreruns all this, submitting itself to God solely
   for the most perfect goodness which is in God, whereby he deserves that
   all wills should be obedient, subject and submissive to him, conforming
   and uniting themselves for ever, in everything, and everywhere, to his
   divine intentions.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   HOW WE ARE TO CONFORM OURSELVES TO THAT DIVINE WILL, WHICH IS CALLED
   THE SIGNIFIED WILL.

   We sometimes consider God's will as it is in itself, and finding it all
   holy and all good, we willingly praise, bless and adore it, and
   sacrifice our own and all other creatures' wills to its obedience, by
   that divine exclamation: Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
   At other times we consider God's will in the particular effects of it,
   as in the events that touch us, and accidents that befall us, and
   finally in the declaration and manifestation of his intentions. And
   although God in reality has but one quite single and most simple will,
   yet we call it by different names, according to the variety of the
   means whereby we know it; by which variety also we are, in various
   ways, obliged to conform ourselves to it.

   Christian doctrine clearly proposes unto us the truths which God wills
   that we should believe, the goods he will have us hope for, the pains
   he will have us dread, what he will have us love, the commandments he
   will have us observe, and the counsels he desires us to follow. And
   this is called God's signified will, because he has signified and made
   manifest unto us that it is his will and intention that all this should
   be believed, hoped for, feared, loved and practised.

   Now forasmuch as this signified will of God proceeds by way of desire,
   and not by way of absolute will, we have power either to follow it by
   obedience, or by disobedience to resist it; for to this purpose God
   makes three acts of his will: he wills that we should be able to
   resist, he desires that we should not resist, and yet allows us to
   resist if we please. That we have power to resist depends on our
   natural condition and liberty; that we do resist proceeds from our
   malice; that we do not resist is according to the desire of the divine
   goodness. And therefore when we resist, God contributes nothing to our
   disobedience, but leaving our will in the hands of its liberty permits
   it to make choice of evil; but when we obey, God contributes his
   assistance, his inspiration, and his grace. For permission is an action
   of the will which of itself is barren, sterile and fruitless, and is as
   it were a passive action, which acts not but only permits action;
   desire on the contrary is an active, fruitful, fertile action, which
   excites, invites and urges. Wherefore God, in his desire that we should
   follow his signified will, solicits, exhorts, excites, inspires, aids
   and succours us, but in permitting us to resist he does nothing but
   simply leave us to our own wills, according to our free election,
   contrary to his desire and intention. And yet this desire is a true
   desire, for how can one more truly express the desire that his friend
   should make good cheer, than by providing a good and excellent banquet,
   as did the king in the Gospel parable, and then, inviting, urging, and
   in a manner compelling him, by prayers, exhortations and pressing
   messages, to come and sit down at the table and eat. In truth, he that
   should by main force open his friend's mouth, cram meat into his
   throat, and make him swallow it, would not be giving courteous
   entertainment to his friend, but would be using him like a beast, and
   like a capon that has to be fattened. This kind of favour requires to
   be offered by way of invitation, persuasion, and solicitation, not
   violently and forcibly thrust upon a man, and hence it is done by way
   of desire, not of absolute will. Now it is the same with regard to the
   signified will of God: for in this, God desires with a true desire that
   we should do what he makes known, and to this end he provides us with
   all things necessary, exhorting and urging us to make use of them. In
   this kind of favour one could desire no more, and as the sunbeams cease
   not to be true sunbeams when they are shut out and repulsed by some
   obstacle, so God's signified will remains the true will of God even if
   it be resisted, though it has not the effects which it would have if it
   were seconded.

   The conformity then of our heart to the signified will of God consists
   in this, that we will all that the divine goodness signifies unto us to
   be of his intention,--believing according to his doctrine, hoping
   according to his promises, fearing according to his threats, loving and
   living according to his ordinances and admonitions, to which all the
   protestations which we make so often in the holy ceremonies of the
   Church do tend. For on this account we stand while the Gospel is read,
   as being prepared to obey the holy signification of God's will
   contained therein; hence we kiss the book at the place of the Gospel,
   in adoration of the sacred word which declares his heavenly will. Hence
   many saints of the old time carried in their bosoms the Gospel written,
   as an epithem of love, as is related of S. Cecily, and S. Matthew's
   Gospel was actually found upon the heart of the dead S. Barnabas,
   written with his own hand. Wherefore in the ancient councils, in the
   midst of the whole assembly of Bishops, there was erected a high
   throne, and upon it was placed the book of the holy Gospels, which
   represented the person of our Saviour,--King, Doctor, Director, Spirit
   and sole Heart of the Councils, and of the whole Church: so much did
   they reverence the signification of God's will expressed in that divine
   book. Indeed that great mirror of the pastoral order, S. Charles,
   Archbishop of Milan, never studied the holy Scripture but bareheaded
   and upon his knees, to testify with what respect we are to read and
   hear the signified will of God.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   OF THE CONFORMITY OF OUR WILL TO THE WILL WHICH GOD HAS TO SAVE US.

   God has signified unto us by so many ways and means that his will is
   that we should all be saved, that none can be ignorant of it. To this
   purpose he made us to his own image and likeness by creation, and made
   himself to our image and likeness by his Incarnation; after which he
   suffered death to ransom and save all mankind, which he did with so
   much love that, as the great S. Denis, apostle of France, recounts, he
   said once to the holy man Carpus that he was ready to suffer another
   Passion to save mankind, and that this would be agreeable to him if it
   could be done without any man's sin.

   And although all are not saved, yet is this will a true will of God's,
   who works in us according to the condition of his and of our nature.
   For his goodness moves him to liberally communicate unto us the
   succours of his grace in order to bring us to the felicity of his
   glory, but our nature requires that his liberality should leave us at
   liberty to make use of it to our salvation, or to neglect it to our
   damnation.

   One thing I have asked of the Lord, said the prophet, this will I seek
   after; . . . . that I may see the delight of the Lord and visit his
   temple. [356] But what is the delight of the sovereign goodness, save
   to pour out and communicate his perfections? Verily his delights are to
   be with the children of men, and to shower his graces upon them.
   Nothing is so agreeable and delightful to free agents as to do their
   own will. Our sanctification is the will of God, and our salvation his
   good-pleasure, nor is there any difference at all between good-pleasure
   and delight, nor, consequently, between the divine delight and the
   divine good will: yea the will which God has to do man good is called
   good, [357] because it is amiable, kind, favourable, agreeable,
   delicious, and as the Greeks, after S. Paul, said; it is a true
   Philanthropy, that is a benevolence or a will entirely loving towards
   men.

   All the celestial temple of the triumphant and of the militant Church
   resounds on every side with the canticles of this sweet love of God
   towards us. And the most sacred body of our Saviour, as a most holy
   temple of his divinity, is all decorated with the marks and tokens of
   this benevolence. So that in visiting the divine temple we behold the
   loving delights which his heart takes in doing us favours.

   Let us then a thousand times a day turn our eyes upon this loving will
   of God, and, making ours melt into it, let us devoutly cry out: O
   goodness infinitely sweet, how amiable is thy will, how desirable are
   thy favours! Thou hast created us for eternal life, and, thy maternal
   bosom, with its sacred swelling breasts of an incomparable love,
   abounds in the milk of mercy, whether it be to pardon sinners or to
   perfect the just. Ah! why do not we then fasten our wills to thine, as
   children fasten themselves on to their mother's breast, to draw the
   milk of thy eternal benedictions!

   Theotimus, we are to will our salvation in such sort as God wills it;
   now he wills it by way of desire, and we also must incessantly desire
   it, following his desire. Nor does he will it only, but in effect gives
   us all necessary means to attain it: we then, in fulfilment of the
   desire we have to be saved, must not only will, but in effect accept
   all the graces which he has provided for us and offers unto us. It is
   enough to say: I desire to be saved. But with regard to the means of
   salvation, it is not enough to say: I desire them;--but we must, with
   an absolute resolution, will and embrace the graces which God presents
   to us: for our will must correspond with God's. And inasmuch as it
   gives us the means of salvation, we ought to receive them, as we ought
   to desire salvation in such sort as God desires it for us, and because
   he desires it.

   But it often happens that the means of attaining salvation, considered
   in the gross and in general, are according to our hearts' liking, but
   considered piecemeal and in particular, are terrifying to us. For have
   we not seen poor S. Peter prepared to undergo in general all kind of
   torments, yea, death itself, to follow his master, and yet, when it
   came to the deed and performance, grow pale, tremble, and, at the word
   of a simple maid, deny his master? Everyone deems himself able to drink
   our Saviour's chalice with him, but when it is in fact presented to us,
   we fly, we give up all. Things proposed in detail make a more strong
   impression, and more sensibly wound the imagination. And for this
   reason we have advised in the Introduction that after general
   affections we should descend to particular ones in holy prayer. [358]
   David accepted particular afflictions as an advancement towards his
   perfection, when he sang in this wise: O Lord, how good it is for me
   that thou hast humbled me, that I might learn thy justifications! [359]
   So also were the Apostles joyous in their tribulations, because they
   were held worthy to endure ignominy for their Saviour's name.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [356] Ps. xxvi. 4.

   [357] Rom. xii. 2.

   [358] II. 6.

   [359] Ps. cxviii. 71.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   OF THE CONFORMITY OF OUR WILL TO THAT WILL OF GOD'S WHICH IS SIGNIFIED
   TO US BY HIS COMMANDMENTS.

   The desire which God has to make us observe his commandments is
   extreme, as the whole Scripture witnesses. And how could he better
   express it, than by the great rewards which he proposes to the
   observers of his law, and the awful punishments with which he threatens
   those who shall violate the same! This made David cry out: O Lord, thou
   hast commanded thy Commandments to be kept most diligently. [360]

   Now the love of complacency, beholding this divine desire, wills to
   please God by observing it; the love of benevolence which submits all
   to God, consequently submits our desires and wills to that will which
   God has signified to us; and hence springs not only the observance, but
   also the love of the commandments, which David extraordinarily extols
   in Psalm cxviii., which he seems only to have composed for this object:
   O how have I loved thy law, O Lord! It is my meditation all the day . .
   . . . Therefore have I loved thy commandments above gold and the topaz
   . . . . . How sweet are thy words to my palate, more than honey to my
   mouth. [361]

   But to stir up in us this holy and salutary love of the commandments,
   we must contemplate their admirable beauty: for, as there are works
   which are bad because they are prohibited, and others which are
   prohibited because they are bad; so there are some that are good,
   because they are commanded, and others that are commanded because they
   are good and very useful. So that all of them are exceeding good and
   worthy of love, because the commandment gives goodness to such as were
   not otherwise good, and gives an increase of goodness to those others
   which even if not commanded would not cease to be good. We do not take
   good in good part, when it is presented by an enemy's hand. The
   Lacedæmonians would not follow solid and wholesome advice coming from a
   wicked person, till it was repeated to them by a good man. On the
   contrary, a friend's present is always grateful. The sweetest
   commandments become bitter when they are imposed by a tyrannical and
   cruel heart; and they become most amiable when ordained by love.
   Jacob's service seemed a royalty unto him, because it proceeded from
   love. O how sweet and how much to be desired is the yoke of the
   heavenly law, established by so amiable a king!

   Many keep the commandments as sick men take medicines, more from fear
   of dying in a state of damnation, than from love of living according to
   our Saviour's pleasure. But as some persons have an aversion for
   physic, be it never, so agreeable, only because it bears the name of
   physic, so there are some souls who abhor things commanded simply
   because they are commanded: and there was a certain man, 'tis said,
   who, having lived quietly in the great city of Paris for the space of
   fourscore years without ever going out of it, as soon as it was
   enjoined him by the king that he should remain there the rest of his
   days, went abroad to see the country, which in his whole lifetime
   before he had not desired.

   On the contrary, the loving heart loves the commandments; and the
   harder they are, the more sweet and agreeable it finds them, because it
   more perfectly pleases the beloved, and gives him more honour. It pours
   forth and sings hymns of joy when God teaches it his commandments and
   justifications. And as the pilgrim who merrily sings on his way adds
   indeed the exertion of singing to that of walking, and yet actually, by
   this increase of labour, unwearies himself, and lightens the hardship
   of the way; even so the sacred lover finds such sweetness in the
   commandments, that nothing so much eases and refreshes him, as the
   gracious load of the precepts of his God. Whereupon the holy Psalmist
   cries out: O Lord, thy justifications, or commandments, were the
   subject of my song in the place of my pilgrimage. [362] It is said that
   mules and horses laden with figs presently fall under their burden and
   lose all their strength: more sweet than figs is the law of our Lord,
   but brutal man who is become as the horse and the mule which have no
   understanding, loses courage and finds not strength to bear this dear
   burden. But as a branch of Agnus Castus keeps the traveller that bears
   it about him from being weary, so the cross, the mortification, the
   yoke, the law of our Saviour, who is the true Chaste Lamb, is a burden
   which unwearies, refreshes and recreates the hearts that love his
   divine Majesty. There is no labour where love is, or if there be any,
   it is a beloved labour. Labour mixed with love is a certain
   bitter-sweet, more pleasant to the palate than a thing purely sweet.

   Thus then does heavenly love conform us to the will of God, and make us
   carefully observe his commandments, as being the absolute desire of his
   divine Majesty whom we will to please. So that this complacency with
   its sweet and amiable violence, foreruns that necessity of obeying
   which the law imposes upon us, converting this necessity into the
   virtue of love, and every difficulty into delight.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [360] Ps. cxviii. 4.

   [361] vv. 97, 127, 103.

   [362] Ps. cxviii. 54.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   OF THE CONFORMITY OF OUR WILL TO THAT WILL OF GOD WHICH IS SIGNIFIED
   UNTO US BY HIS COUNSELS.

   A Commandment testifies a most entire and absolute will in him who
   gives it, but counsel only represents a will of desire: a commandment
   obliges us, counsel only invites us; a commandment makes the
   transgressors thereof culpable; counsel only makes such as do not
   follow it less worthy of praise; those who violate commandments deserve
   damnation, those who neglect counsels deserve only to be less
   glorified. There is a difference between commanding and recommending:
   in commanding we use authority to oblige, but in recommending we use
   friendliness to induce and incite: a commandment imposes necessity,
   counsel and recommendation induce to what is of greater utility:
   commandments correspond to obedience, counsels to credence: we follow
   counsel with intention to please, and commandments lest we should
   displease. And thence it is that the love of complacency which obliges
   us to please the beloved, consequently urges us to follow his counsels,
   and the love of benevolence, which desires that all wills and
   affections should be subjected unto him, causes that we not only will
   what he ordains, but also what he counsels and exhorts to: as the love
   and respect which a good child bears to his father make him resolve to
   live not only according to the commandments which his father imposes,
   but also according to the desires and inclinations which he manifests.

   A counsel is indeed given for the benefit of him who receives it, to
   the end that he may become perfect: If thou wilt be perfect, said our
   Saviour, go sell all that thou hast, give it to the poor, and come,
   follow me. [363] But the loving heart does not receive a counsel for
   its utility, but to conform itself to the desire of him who gives the
   counsel, and to render him the homage due to his will. And therefore it
   receives not counsels but in such sort as God desires, nor does God
   desire that every one should observe all counsels, but such only as are
   suitable, according to the diversity of persons, times, occasions,
   strengths, as charity requires: for she it is who, as queen of all the
   virtues, of all the commandments, of all the counsels, and, in short,
   of all Christian laws and works, gives to all of them their rank,
   order, season and worth.

   If your assistance be truly necessary to your father or mother to
   enable them to live, it is no time then to practise the counsel of
   retiring into a monastery, for charity ordains that you presently put
   into execution its command of honouring, serving, aiding and succouring
   your father or your mother. You are perhaps a prince, by whose
   posterity the subjects of your crown are to be preserved in peace, and
   assured against tyranny, sedition, civil wars: the effecting,
   therefore, of so great a good, obliges you to beget lawful successors
   in a holy marriage. It is either not to lose chastity, or at least to
   lose it chastely, when for love of charity it is sacrificed to the
   public good. Are you weak and uncertain in your health, and does it
   require great support? Do not then voluntarily undertake actual
   poverty, for this is forbidden you by charity. Charity not only forbids
   fathers of families to sell all and give it to the poor, but also
   commands them honestly to gather together what is requisite for the
   support and education of wife, children and servants: as also it
   commands kings and princes to lay up treasures, which, being acquired
   by a laudible frugality, and not by tyrannical measures, serve as
   wholesome defences against visible enemies. Does not S. Paul counsel
   such as are married, that, the time of prayer being ended, they should
   return to the well-ordered course of their married life? [364]

   The counsels are all given for the perfection of the Christian people,
   but not for that of each Christian in particular. There are
   circumstances which make them sometimes impossible, sometimes
   unprofitable, sometimes perilous, sometimes hurtful to some men, which
   is one of the reasons why Our Saviour said of one of the counsels, what
   he would have to be understood of them all: He that can receive it, let
   him receive it: [365] as though he had said, according to S. Jerome's
   exposition: he that can win and bear away the honour of chastity as a
   prize of renown, let him take it, for it is proposed to such as shall
   run valiantly. Not every one then is able, that is, it is not expedient
   for every one, to observe always all the counsels, for as they are
   granted in favour of charity, so is this the rule and measure by which
   they are put in practice.

   When, therefore, charity so orders, monks and religious are drawn out
   of their cloisters to be made cardinals, prelates, parish-priests, yea
   sometimes they are even joined in matrimony for a kingdom's repose, as
   I have already said. And if charity make those leave their cloister
   that bad bound themselves thereto by solemn vow,--for better reason,
   and upon less occasion, one may by the authority of the same charity,
   counsel many to live at home, to keep their means, to marry, yea to
   turn soldiers and go to war, which is so perilous a profession.

   Now when charity draws some to poverty and withdraws others from it,
   when she directs some to marriage and others to continence, when she
   shuts one up in a cloister and makes another quit it, she is not bound
   to give account thereof to any one: for she has the plenitude of power
   in Christian laws, as it is written: charity can do all things; she has
   the perfection of prudence, according to that: charity does nothing
   wrongly. [366] And if any would contest, and demand why she so does,
   she will boldly make answer: The Lord hath need of it. [367] All is
   made for charity, and charity for God. All must serve her and she none:
   no, she serves not her well-beloved, whose servant she is not, but his
   spouse, whom she does not serve, but love: for which cause we are to
   take our orders from her how to exercise counsels. To some she will
   appoint chastity without poverty, to others obedience and not chastity,
   to others fasting but not alms-deeds, to others alms-deeds and fasting,
   to others solitude and not the pastoral charge, to others intercourse
   with men and not solitude. In fine she is a sacred water, by which the
   garden of the church is fertilized, and though she herself have no
   colour that can be called colour, yet the flowers which she makes
   spring have each one its particular colour. She makes Martyrs redder
   than the rose, Virgins whiter than the lily; some she dyes with the
   fine violet of mortification, others with the yellow of marriage-cares,
   variously employing the counsels, for the perfection of the souls who
   are so happy as to live under her conduct.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [363] Matt. xix. 21.

   [364] 1 Cor. vii. 5.

   [365] Matt. xix. 11.

   [366] 1 Cor. xiii.

   [367] Matt. xxi. 3.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   THAT THE LOVE OF GOD'S WILL SIGNIFIED IN THE COMMANDMENTS MOVES US TO
   THE LOVE OF THE COUNSELS.

   O Theotimus! how amiable is this Divine will! O how amiable and
   desirable it is! O law all of love and all for love! The Hebrews by the
   word, peace, understand the collection and perfection of all good
   things, that is, happiness: and the Psalmist cries out: Much peace have
   they that love thy law; and to them there is no stumbling-block: [368]
   as though he would say: O Lord! what delights are in the love of thy
   sacred commandments! The heart that is possessed with the love of thy
   law is possessed of all delicious sweetness. Truly that great king
   whose heart was made according to the heart of God, did so relish the
   perfect excellence of the divine commandments, that he seems to be a
   lover captivated with the beauty of this law as with the chaste spouse
   and queen of his heart; as appears by his continual praises thereof.

   When the heavenly spouse would express the infinite sweetness of her
   divine lover's perfumes: Thy name, says she unto him, is as oil poured
   out: [369] as though she said: thou art so excellently perfumed, that
   thou seemest to be all perfume, and thou art more fitly termed ointment
   and perfume, than anointed and perfumed. So the soul that loves God is
   so transformed into the divine will, that it merits rather to be
   called, God's will, than to be called, obedient and subject to his
   will. Whence God says by Isaias, that he will call the Christian church
   by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord will pronounce, imprint, and
   engrave, in the hearts of his faithful; and then, explaining this name,
   he says it shall be: My will in her: [370] as though he had said, that
   among such as are not Christians every one has his own will in the
   midst of his heart, but among the true children of our Saviour, every
   one shall forsake his own will, and shall have only one master-will,
   dominant and universal, which shall animate, govern and direct all
   souls, all hearts and all wills: and the name of honour amongst
   Christians shall be no other than God's will in them, a will which
   shall rule over all wills, and transform them all into itself; so that
   the will of Christians and the will of Our Lord may be but one single
   will. This was perfectly verified in the primitive Church, when, as
   says the glorious S. Luke: In the multitude of the faithful there was
   but one heart and one soul: [371] for he means not there to speak of
   the heart that keeps alive our bodies, nor of the soul which animates
   hearts with a human life, but he speaks of the heart which gives our
   souls heavenly life, and of the soul that animates our hearts with the
   supernatural life; the one, the singularly one heart and soul of true
   Christians, which is no other thing than the will of God. Life, says
   the Psalmist, is in the will of God, [372] not only because our
   temporal life depends on the divine pleasure, but also because our
   spiritual life consists in the execution of it, by which God lives and
   reigns in us, making us live and subsist in him. On the contrary, the
   wicked from of old (that is, always) have broken the yoke of the law of
   God, and have said: I will not serve. [373] Wherefore God says that he
   named them transgressors and rebels from the womb; [374] and speaking
   to the king of Tyre, he reproaches him for having set his heart as the
   heart of God: [375] for the spirit of revolt will have its heart to be
   its own master, and its own will to be sovereign like the will of God;
   it would not have the divine will to reign over it, but would be
   absolute and without any dependence. O eternal Lord! suffer not
   this,--but effect that not my will but thine be done. Yes, we are in
   this world not to do our own will, but the will of thy goodness which
   has placed us here. It was written of thee, O Saviour of my soul, that
   thou didst the will of thy Eternal Father, [376] and by the first act
   of the will of thy human soul, at the instant of thy conception, thou
   didst lovingly embrace this law of the divine will, and didst place it
   in the midst of thy heart there to reign and have dominion for ever.
   Ah! who will give my soul the grace of having no will save the will of
   her God!

   Now when our love is exceeding great towards God's will, we are not
   content to do only the Divine will which is signified unto us by the
   commandments, but we also put ourselves under the obedience of the
   counsels, which are only given us for a more perfect observing of the
   commandments, to which also they have reference, as S. Thomas says
   excellently well. O how well does he observe the prohibition of
   unlawful pleasures who has even renounced the most just and legitimate
   delights! How far is he from coveting another man's goods who rejects
   even such as he might holily have kept! How far is he from preferring
   his own will before God's, who, to do God's will, submits himself to
   that of a man!

   David upon a day was in his camp, and the Philistine garrison in
   Bethlehem. [377] And David longed, and said: Oh! that some man would
   give me a drink of the water out of the cistern that is in Bethlehem,
   by the gate! And behold, he had no sooner said the word than three
   valiant men set out, hand and head lowered, break through the hostile
   camp, go to the cistern of Bethlehem, draw water, and bring it to
   David, who, seeing the hazard which these three knightly men had run to
   gratify his longing, would not drink the water obtained at the peril of
   their blood and life, but poured it out in sacrifice to the eternal
   God. Ah! mark, I beseech you, Theotimus, how great the ardour of these
   cavaliers in the service and satisfaction of their master! They fly,
   they break through the ranks of their enemies, they incur a thousand
   dangers of destruction, to gratify only one simple desire, which their
   king expresses before them. Our Saviour when he was in this world
   declared his will in some cases by way of commandment, and in many
   others he only signified it by way of desire: for he did highly commend
   chastity, poverty, obedience and perfect resignation, the abnegation of
   one's own will, widowhood, fasting, continual prayer; and what he said
   of chastity, that he who could win the prize should win it, he said
   sufficiently of all the other counsels. At this desire, the most
   valiant Christians have entered on the race, and overcoming all
   repugnances, concupiscences and difficulties, they have arrived at holy
   perfection, keeping themselves to the strict observance of their King's
   desires, and by this means bearing away the crown of glory.

   Verily, as witnesses the divine Psalmist, God hears not only the
   prayers of his faithful, but even their very desire and the mere
   preparation of their hearts for prayer; [378] so inclined and forward
   is he to do the will of those who love him. And why shall not we then
   in return be so zealous in following God's holy will, as to do not only
   what he orders, but also what we know he likes and wishes. Noble souls
   need no other spur to the undertaking of a design than to know that
   their beloved desires it: My soul, said one of them, melted when he
   spoke. [379]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [368] Ps. cxviii. 165.

   [369] Cant. i. 2.

   [370] Is. lxii. 14.

   [371] Acts iv. 32.

   [372] Ps. xxix. 6.

   [373] Jer. ii. 20.

   [374] Is. xlviii. 8.

   [375] Ezech. xxviii. 2.

   [376] Ps. xxxix. 9.

   [377] 2 Kings xxiii.

   [378] Ps. ix. 38

   [379] Cant. v. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   THAT THE CONTEMPT OF THE EVANGELICAL COUNSELS IS A GREAT SIN.

   The words in which our Saviour exhorts us to tend towards and aim at
   perfection, are so forcible and so pressing, that we cannot dissemble
   the obligation we have to undertake to carry out that design. Be holy,
   says he, because I am holy. [380] He that is holy, let him be
   sanctified still; and he that is just, let him be justified still.
   [381] Be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. [382] For this
   cause, the great S. Bernard writing to the glorious S. Guerin, Abbot of
   Aulps, whose life and miracles have left so sweet an odour in this
   diocese: "The just man," says he, "never says it is enough; he still
   hungers and thirsts after justice."

   Truly, Theotimus, in temporal matters nothing suffices him who is not
   satisfied with what is enough; for what can suffice him to whom
   sufficiency is not sufficient? But in spiritual goods he has not
   sufficient who is satisfied with what is enough, and sufficiency is not
   sufficient, because true sufficiency in divine things consists partly
   in the desire of affluence. God in the beginning commanded the earth to
   bring forth the green herb, and such as may seed, and the fruit-tree
   yielding fruit after its kind, which has also seed in itself. [383]

   And do we not see by experience, that plants and fruits are not come to
   their full growth and maturity till they bring forth their seeds and
   pips, whence other trees and plants of the same kind spring. Never do
   our virtues come to their full stature and measure, till such time as
   they beget in us desires of progress, which like spiritual seeds serve
   for the production of new degrees of virtue. And, methinks, the earth
   of our heart is commanded to bring forth the plants of virtue, which
   bear the fruits of good works, every one in its kind, and having the
   seeds of desires and resolutions of ever multiplying and advancing in
   perfection. And the virtue that bears not the seed of these desires is
   not yet come to its growth and maturity. "So then," says S. Bernard to
   the tepid man, "you do not want to advance in perfection? No. Nor yet
   grow worse? No, truly. What, then--you would neither grow better nor
   worse?--poor man, you would be what cannot be. Nothing, indeed, in the
   world is either stable or constant; but of man it is said even more
   specially that he never remaineth in the same state. [384] It is
   necessary then that he either go forward or backward."

   Now I say not, any more than does S. Bernard, that it is a sin not to
   practise the counsels. No, in truth, Theotimus: for it is the very
   difference between commandments and counsels, that the commandment
   obliges us under pain of sin, and the counsel only invites us without
   pain of sin. Yet I distinctly say that to contemn the aiming after
   Christian perfection is a great sin, and that it is a still greater to
   contemn the invitation by which our Saviour calls us to it; but it is
   an insupportable impiety to contemn the counsels and means which our
   Saviour points out for the attainment of it. It were a heresy to say,
   that our Saviour had not given us good counsel, and a blasphemy to say
   to God: Depart from us, we desire not the knowledge of thy ways: [385]
   but it is a horrible irreverence towards him who with so much love and
   sweetness invites us to perfection, to say: I will not be holy or
   perfect, nor have any larger portion of thy benevolence, nor follow the
   counsels which thou givest me to make progress in perfection.

   We may indeed without sin not follow the counsels, on account of the
   affection we may have to other things: as for example, it is lawful for
   a man not to sell what he possesseth to give to the poor, because he
   has not the courage to make so entire a renunciation. It is also lawful
   to marry, because one loves, or because one has not strength of mind
   necessary to undertake the war which must be waged against the flesh.
   But to profess not to wish to follow the counsels, nor any one of them,
   cannot be done without contempt of him who gives them. Not to follow
   the counsel of virginity, and so to marry, is not wrong, but marrying
   as if putting marriage higher than chastity, as heretics do, that is a
   great contempt either of the counsellor or of his counsel. To drink
   wine against the doctor's advice when overcome with thirst or with a
   desire to drink, is not precisely to contemn the doctor nor his advice:
   but to say--I will not follow the doctor's advice--must necessarily
   proceed from some bad opinion one harbours of him. Now as regards men,
   one may often contemn their counsel, without contemning those who give
   it, because to think that a man may have erred is not to contemn him.
   But to reject and contemn God's counsel, can only spring from an idea
   that he has not counselled us well; which cannot be thought but by a
   spirit of blasphemy, as though God were not wise enough to be able, or
   good enough to will, to give good advice. We may say the same of the
   counsels of the Church, which by reason of the continued assistance of
   the Holy Ghost, who instructs and conducts her in all truth, can never
   give evil advice.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [380] Levit. xi. 44.

   [381] Apoc. xxii. 11

   [382] Matt. v. 48.

   [383] Gen. i. 11.

   [384] Job xiv. 2.

   [385] Job xxi. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   A CONTINUATION OF THE PRECEDING DISCOURSE. HOW EVERY ONE, WHILE BOUND
   TO LOVE, IS NOT BOUND TO PRACTISE, ALL THE EVANGELICAL COUNSELS, AND
   YET HOW EVERY ONE SHOULD PRACTISE WHAT HE IS ABLE.

   Although all the Evangelical Counsels cannot and should not be
   practised by every Christian in particular, yet every one is obliged to
   love them all, because they are all very good. If you have a sick
   headache, and the smell of musk annoys you, will you therefore deny
   that this smell is good and delightsome? If a robe of gold does not
   suit you, will you say that therefore it is worth nothing? Or will you
   throw a ring into the dirt because it fits not your finger? Praise
   therefore, Theotimus, and dearly love, all the counsels that God has
   given unto men.

   Oh! blessed be the Angel of Great Counsel for ever, together with all
   the counsels he gives and exhortations he makes to men! Ointment and
   perfumes rejoice the heart, says Solomon, and the good counsels of a
   friend are sweet to the soul! [386] But of what friend, and of what
   counsels, do we speak? O God! it is of the friend of friends; and his
   counsels are more delightful than honey: our friend is our Saviour, his
   counsels are to save us. Let us rejoice, Theotimus, when we see others
   undertake to follow those counsels, which we either cannot or must not
   observe; let us pray for them, bless, favour and assist them: for
   charity obliges us not only to love what is good for ourselves, but
   that also which is good for our neighbour.

   We shall sufficiently testify our love for all the counsels, when we
   devoutly observe such as are suitable to our calling. For, as he that
   believes one article of faith because God has revealed it by his Word
   (announced and declared by the Church), cannot disbelieve the others:
   and as he who observes one commandment for the pure love of God is most
   ready to observe the others when occasion offers:--so he that loves and
   prizes one evangelical counsel because it came from God, must
   necessarily love all the others, because they are also from God. Now we
   may with ease practise some of them, though not all of them together;
   for God has given many, in order that every one may observe some of
   them, and not a day passes without our having some opportunity of doing
   so.

   If charity require that to assist your father or mother you must live
   with them, preserve at the same time the love and affection for your
   seclusion; do not keep your heart in your father's house more than is
   required for doing what charity orders to be done there. Is it
   inexpedient for you, on account of your rank, to preserve perfect
   chastity? Keep it at least, as much as you may without violating
   charity. Let him who cannot do all, at least do some part. You are not
   obliged to seek out him who has offended you, for it is his place to
   return to himself, and to come to you to give you satisfaction, since
   he began the injury and outrage: yet go, Theotimus, follow our
   Saviour's counsel, prevent him in good, render him good for evil, cast
   upon his head and heart the burning coals of signs of charity, that may
   wholly inflame him and force him to a reconciliation. You are not bound
   by rigour of law to give alms to all the poor you meet, but only to
   such as are in very great need of them: yet do not therefore cease to
   give willingly, according to our Saviour's counsel, to every poor
   person you find, so far as your condition and your real necessities may
   allow. You have no obligation to make any vow at all, yet make some,
   such as shall be judged fit by your ghostly father for your advancement
   in Divine love. You have liberty to use wine within the limits of
   propriety; yet following S. Paul's counsel to Timothy, take only so
   much as is requisite for your stomach's sake.

   In counsels there are various degrees of perfection. To lend to such
   poor people as are not in extreme want is the first degree of the
   counsel of alms-deeds; to give it them is a degree higher; higher still
   to give all; but the highest is to give oneself, dedicating our person
   to their service. Hospitality except in extreme necessity is a counsel.
   To entertain strangers is the first degree of it; but to stay by the
   wayside to invite them as Abraham did, is a degree higher; and yet
   higher than that is it to live in places of danger, in order to rescue,
   help and wait upon travellers: in this excelled that great S. Bernard
   of Menthon, a native of this diocese, who, being a scion of a most
   noble house, did for many years inhabit the precipices and peaks of our
   Alps, and there got together many associates to wait for, lodge and
   rescue, and to deliver from the danger of the storm, travellers and
   passers-by who would often perish amidst the tempests, snow and colds,
   were it not for the hospices which this great friend of God erected and
   founded upon the two mountains, which, taking their names from him, are
   called the Great S. Bernard, in the diocese of Sion, and the Little S.
   Bernard, in the diocese of Tarentaise. To visit the sick who are not in
   extreme necessity is a laudable charity, to serve them is yet better,
   but to consecrate a man's self to their service is the excellence of
   that counsel: this, by their institute, the Clerks of the Visitation of
   the Sick exercise; as do many ladies in various places; in imitation of
   the great S. Samson, a gentleman and physician of Rome, who at
   Constantinople, where he was made priest, with a wonderful charity
   devoted himself to the service of the sick in a hospital which he began
   there, and which the Emperor Justinian erected and finished: and in
   imitation of SS. Catharine of Siena and of Genoa, S. Elizabeth of
   Hungary, and the glorious friends of God S. Francis and the Blessed
   (S.) Ignatius of Loyola, who in the beginning of their Orders performed
   this exercise with an incomparable fervour and spiritual profit.

   Virtues have then a certain sphere of perfection, and commonly we are
   not obliged to practise them to the height of their excellence. It is
   sufficient to go so far in the practice of them as really to enter upon
   them. But to go farther, and to advance in perfection, is a counsel, as
   the acts of heroic virtues are not ordinarily commanded, but counselled
   only. And if upon some occasion we find ourselves obliged to exercise
   them, it is by reason of some rare and extraordinary occurrence, which
   makes them necessary for the preservation of God's grace. The blessed
   door-keeper of the prison of Sebaste, seeing one of the forty who were
   then martyred lose courage and the crown of martyrdom, took his place
   without being apprehended, and thus made up the forty of those glorious
   and triumphant soldiers of Our Lord. S. Adauctus seeing S. Felix led to
   martyrdom,--I, quoth he (no one urging him), I also am as much a
   Christian as he, worshipping the same Saviour; and with that, kissing
   S. Felix, he walked with him to martyrdom and was beheaded. Thousands
   of the ancient martyrs did the like, and having it equally in their
   power to avoid or undergo martyrdom without sin, they chose rather
   generously to undergo it than lawfully to avoid it. In these, martyrdom
   was an heroic act of the fortitude and constancy which a holy excess of
   love gave them. But when it is necessary to endure martyrdom or else to
   renounce the faith, of martyrdom does not cease to be martyrdom, and an
   excellent act love and valour, yet do I scarcely think it is to be
   termed an heroic act, not being chosen by any excess of love but by
   force of the law which in that case commands it. Now in the practice of
   the heroic acts of virtue consists the perfect imitation of our
   Saviour, who, as the great S. Thomas says, had all the virtues in an
   heroic degree from the first instant of his conception; yea I would
   willingly say more than heroic, since he was not simply more than man
   but infinitely more than man, that is, true God.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [386] Prov. xxvii. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   HOW WE ARE TO CONFORM OURSELVES TO GOD'S WILL SIGNIFIED UNTO US BY
   INSPIRATIONS, AND FIRST, OF THE VARIETY OF THE MEANS BY WHICH GOD
   INSPIRES US.

   The rays of the sun enlighten while heating and heat while
   enlightening. Inspiration is a heavenly ray which brings into our
   hearts a light full of heat, by which it makes us see the good and
   inflames us with a desire to pursue it. All that lives upon the face of
   the earth is dulled by the cold of winter, but, upon the return of the
   vital heat of spring, it all takes up its movement again. The animals
   run more swiftly, birds fly more quickly and sing more merrily, and
   plants put forth their leaves and flowers most gladsomely. Without
   inspiration our souls would lead an idle, sluggish and fruitless life,
   but on receiving the divine rays of inspiration we are sensible of a
   light mingled with a quickening heat, which illuminates our
   understanding, and which excites and animates our will, giving it the
   strength to will and effect the good which is necessary for eternal
   salvation. God having formed man's body of the slime of the earth, as
   Moses says, breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a
   living soul, that is, a soul which gave life, motion and operation to
   the body; and the same eternal God breathes and infuses into our souls
   the inspirations of the supernatural life, to the end that, as says the
   great Apostle, they may become a quickening spirit, [387] that is, a
   spirit which makes us live, move, feel, and work according to the
   movements of grace, so that he who gave us being gives us also
   operation. The breath of man warms the things it enters into; witness
   the child of the Sunamitess, [388] to whose mouth the prophet Eliseus
   having laid his, and breathed upon him, his flesh grew warm; and
   experience makes it evident. But with regard to the breath of God, it
   not only warms, but also gives a perfect light, his Spirit being an
   infinite light, whose vital breath is called inspiration, because by it
   the divine goodness breathes upon us and inspires us with the desires
   and intentions of his heart.

   Now it uses countless means of inspiring. S. Antony, S. Francis, S.
   Anselm, and a thousand others, had frequent inspirations by the sight
   of creatures. The ordinary means is preaching, but sometimes those whom
   the word does not help are taught by tribulation, according to that of
   the Prophet: And vexation alone shall make you understand what you
   hear: [389] that is, such as by hearing the heavenly menaces against
   the wicked do not amend, shall be taught the truth by the event and
   effects, and feeling affliction shall become wise. S. Mary of Egypt was
   inspired by the sight of a picture of Our Lady; S. Anthony, by hearing
   the Gospel read at Mass; S. Augustine, by hearing the history of S.
   Anthony's life; the Duke of Gandia (S. Francis Borgia), by looking upon
   the dead empress; S. Pachomius, by seeing an example of charity; the
   Blessed (S.) Ignatius of Loyola, by reading the lives of the Saints; S.
   Cyprian (not the great Bishop of Carthage but a layman, yet a glorious
   martyr) was moved by hearing the devil confess his impotence against
   those that trust in God. When I was a youth at Paris, two scholars, one
   of whom was a heretic, passing the night in the Faubourg S. Jacques in
   debauchery, heard the Carthusians ring to Matins, and the heretic
   asking the other why they rang, he described to him with what devotion
   they celebrated the Divine office in that holy monastery: O God, quoth
   he, how different is the practice of those religious from ours! They
   perform the office of angels, and we that of brute beasts: and desiring
   the day after to see by experience what he had learnt by his
   companion's relation, he found the fathers in their stalls, standing
   like a row of marble statues in their niches, motionless except for the
   chanting of the Psalms, which they performed with a truly angelic
   attention and devotion, according to the custom of this holy Order; so
   that this poor youth, wholly ravished with admiration, was taken with
   the exceeding consolation which he found in seeing God so well
   worshipped amongst Catholics, and resolved, what afterwards he
   effected, to put himself into the bosom of the Church, the true and
   only spouse of him who had visited him with his inspiration, in the
   infamous litter of abomination in which he had been.

   Oh how happy are they who keep their hearts open to holy inspirations!
   For these are never wanting to any, in so far as they are necessary for
   living well and devoutly, according to each one's condition of life, or
   for fulfilling holily the duties of his profession. For as God, by the
   ministry of nature, furnishes every animal with the instincts which are
   necessary for its preservation and the exercise of its natural powers,
   so if we resist not God's grace, he bestows on every one of us the
   inspirations necessary to live, to work, and to preserve our spiritual
   life. O Lord, said the faithful Eliezer, the God of my master, Abraham,
   meet me to-day, I beseech thee, and shew kindness to my master,
   Abraham! Behold, I stand nigh the spring of water, and the daughters of
   the inhabitants of this city will come out to draw water: now,
   therefore, the maid to whom I shall say: let down thy pitcher that I
   may drink: and she shall answer, drink, and I will give thy camels
   drink also: let it be the same whom thou hast provided for thy servant
   Isaac. [390] Theotimus Eliezer does not express any desire of water
   except for himself, but the fair Rebecca, obeying the inspiration which
   God and her kindness gave her, offers withal to water his camels;
   whence she became holy Isaac's wife, daughter-in-law to the great
   Abraham, and a grandmother to our Saviour. Truly, the souls which are
   not contented with doing what the heavenly beloved requires at their
   hands by his commandments and counsels, but also promptly comply with
   sacred inspirations, are they whom the Eternal Father has destined to
   be the spouses of his well-beloved son. And, as regards Eliezer, since
   he cannot otherwise distinguish amongst the daughters of Haran (the
   town of Nachor) which of them was destined for his master's son, God
   reveals it unto him by inspiration. When we are at a loss, and human
   help fails us in our perplexities, God then inspires us, nor will he
   permit us to err, as long as we are humbly obedient. But I will say no
   more of these necessary inspirations, having often spoken of them in
   this work, as also in the Introduction to the Devout Life.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [387] 1 Cor. xv. 45

   [388] 4 Kings iv. 34.

   [389] Is. xxviii. 19.

   [390] Gen. xxiv. 12, 13, 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   OF THE UNION OF OUR WILL WITH GOD'S IN THE INSPIRATIONS WHICH ARE GIVEN
   FOR THE EXTRAORDINARY PRACTICE OF VIRTUES; AND OF PERSEVERANCE IN ONE'S
   VOCATION, THE FIRST MARK OF INSPIRATION.

   There are certain inspirations which tend only to an extraordinary
   perfection of the ordinary exercises of the Christian life. Charity
   towards the sick poor is an ordinary exercise of true Christians; but
   an ordinary exercise which was practised by S. Francis and S. Catharine
   with an extraordinary perfection, when they licked and sucked the
   ulcers of the leprous and the cancerous; and by the glorious S. Louis,
   when bare-head and upon his knees he served the sick;--at which a
   Cistercian abbot was lost in admiration, seeing him in this posture
   handle and dress the horrible and cancerous sores of a poor wretch. And
   it was also a very extraordinary exercise of this holy monarch to serve
   the most abject and vile of the poor at his table, and to eat their
   leavings. S. Jerome entertaining in his hospital at Bethlehem the
   pilgrims of Europe who fled from the persecution of the Goths, did not
   only wash their feet, but descended even so low as to wash and rub the
   legs of their camels, imitating Rebecca whom we just mentioned, who not
   only drew water for Eliezer, but for his camels also. S. Francis was
   not only extreme in the practice of poverty, as is known to all, but
   was equally so in the practice of simplicity. He redeemed a lamb which
   he feared was going to be slaughtered, because it represented our
   Saviour. He showed respect to almost all creatures, contemplating in
   them their Creator, by an unusual yet most wise simplicity. Sometimes
   he would busy himself with removing worms from the road, lest passers
   by should trample them under their feet, remembering that our Saviour
   had compared himself to the worm. He called creatures his brothers and
   sisters, by a certain admirable consideration which love suggested unto
   him. S. Alexius, a gentleman of very noble descent, practised in an
   excellent manner the abjection of himself, living unknown for the space
   of seventeen years in his father's house at Rome as a poor pilgrim. All
   these inspirations were for ordinary exercises, practised, however,
   with extraordinary perfection. Now, in this kind of inspiration we are
   to observe the rules which we gave for desires in our Introduction.
   [391] We must not strive to practise many exercises at once, and upon a
   sudden, for the enemy often tries to make us undertake and begin many
   designs, to the end that overwhelmed with the multiplicity of business
   we may accomplish nothing, but leave all unfinished: yea, sometimes he
   suggests the desire of undertaking some excellent work which he
   foresees we shall not accomplish, in order to turn us from prosecuting
   a work less excellent which we should have performed; for he cares not
   how many purposes, plans and beginnings be made, so long as nothing is
   done. He will not hinder the bringing forth of male children, any more
   than Pharao did, provided that before they grow they are slain. On the
   contrary, says the great S. Jerome, amongst Christians it is not so
   much the beginning as the end that is regarded. We must not swallow so
   much food as to be unable to digest what we take. The deceiving spirit
   makes us stay in beginnings, and content ourselves with the flowery
   spring-time, but the Divine Spirit makes us regard beginnings only in
   order to attain the end, and only makes us rejoice in the flowers of
   spring in the expectation of enjoying the ripe fruits of summer and
   autumn.

   The great S. Thomas is of opinion that it is not expedient to consult
   and deliberate much concerning an inclination to enter a good and
   well-regulated religious Order; for the religious life being counselled
   by our Saviour in the Gospel, what need is there of many consultations?
   It is sufficient to make one good one, with a few persons who are
   thoroughly prudent and capable in such an affair, and who can assist us
   to make a speedy and solid resolution; but as soon as we have once
   deliberated and resolved, whether in this matter or in any other that
   appertains to God's service, we must be constant and immovable, not
   permitting ourselves to be shaken by any appearances of a greater good:
   for very often, says the glorious S. Bernard, the devil deludes us, and
   to draw us from the effecting of one good he proposes unto us some
   other good, that seems better; and after we have started this, he, in
   order to divert us from effecting it, presents a third, ready to let us
   make plenty of beginnings if only we do not make an end. We should not
   even go from one Order to another without very weighty motives, says S.
   Thomas, following the Abbot Nestorius cited by Cassian.

   I borrow from the great S. Anselm (writing to Lanzo) a beautiful
   similitude. As a plant often transplanted can never take root, nor,
   consequently, come to perfection and return the expected fruit; so the
   soul that transplants her heart from design to design cannot do well,
   nor come to the true growth of her perfection, since perfection does
   not consist in beginnings but in accomplishments. The sacred living
   creatures of Ezechiel went whither the impulse of the spirit was to go,
   and they turned not when they went, and every one of them went straight
   forward: [392] we are to go whither the inspiration moves us, not
   turning about, nor returning back, but tending thither, whither God has
   turned our face, without changing our gaze. He that is in a good way,
   let him step out and get on. It happens sometimes that we forsake the
   good to seek the better, and that having forsaken the one we find not
   the other: better is the possession of a small treasure found, than the
   expectation of a greater which is to find. The inspiration which moves
   us to quit a real good which we enjoy in order to gain a better in the
   future, is to be suspected. A young Portuguese, called Francis Bassus,
   was admirable, not only in divine eloquence but also in the practice of
   virtue, under the discipline of the Blessed (S.) Philip Neri in the
   Congregation of the Oratory at Rome. Now he persuaded himself that he
   was inspired to leave this holy society, to place himself in an Order,
   strictly so called, and at last he resolved to do so. But the B.
   Philip, assisting at his reception into the Order of S. Dominic, wept
   bitterly; whereupon being asked by Francis Marie Tauruse, afterwards
   Archbishop of Siena and Cardinal, why he shed tears: I deplore, said
   he, the loss of so many virtues. And in fact this young man, who was so
   excellently good and devout in the Congregation, after he became a
   religious was so inconstant and fickle, that agitated with various
   desires of novelties and changes, he gave afterwards great and grievous
   scandal.

   If the fowler go straight to the partridge's nest, she will show
   herself, and counterfeit weakness and lameness, and, raising herself up
   as though she would take a great flight, will immediately tumble down,
   as if she were able to do no more, in order that the fowler being
   busied in looking after her, and expecting easily to take her, may not
   light on her little ones in the nest; but when he has pursued her a
   while, and fancies he has her, she rises into the air and escapes. So
   our enemy, seeing a man by God's inspiration undertake a profession and
   manner of life fitted for his advancement in heavenly love, persuades
   him to enter into some other way, more perfect in appearance; but
   having put him out of his first way, he makes him by little and little
   apprehend the second way impossible, proposing a third; that so keeping
   him occupied in the continual inquiry for various and new means of
   perfecting himself, he may hinder him from making use of any, and
   consequently from attaining the end he seeks, which is perfection.
   Young hounds leave the pack at every new scent, and make after the
   fresh quarry; the old and well-scented hounds never change, but keep
   the scent they are on. Let every one then, having once found out God's
   holy will touching his vocation, keep to it holily and lovingly,
   practising therein its proper exercises, according to the order of
   discretion and with the zeal of perfection.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [391] III. 37.

   [392] Ezech. i. 12.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   OF THE UNION OF MAN'S WILL WITH GOD'S IN THOSE INSPIRATIONS WHICH ARE
   CONTRARY TO ORDINARY LAWS; AND OF PEACE AND TRANQUILLITY OF HEART,
   SECOND MARK OF INSPIRATION.

   Thus then, Theotimus, we are to behave ourselves in those inspirations
   which are only extraordinary in the sense that they move us to practise
   ordinary Christian exercises with an extraordinary fervour and
   perfection. But there are other inspirations which are called
   extraordinary, not only because they make the soul pass the bounds of
   ordinary actions, but also because they move it to actions contrary to
   the common laws, rules and customs of the most holy Church and
   therefore are more admirable than imitable. The holy maiden named by
   historians Eusebia the Stranger, left Rome, her native city, with two
   other maidens, and taking male attire embarked on a sea-voyage, went to
   Alexandria, and thence to the Isle of Cos; there, finding herself safe,
   she put on again her woman's dress, and again taking ship went into
   Caria to the town of Mylassa, whither the great Paul, who had found her
   in Cos and had taken her under his spiritual direction, led her, and
   where afterwards being made Bishop, he so holily directed her that she
   established a monastery and dedicated herself to serve the Church in
   the office of deaconess (as in those days it was called), with such
   fervour of charity that in the end she died a Saint, and by a number of
   miracles which God did by her relics and intercession, was recognized
   as such. To put on the attire belonging to the other sex, and thus
   disguised to expose oneself to a journey with men, does not only pass
   the ordinary rules of Christian modesty, but is even contrary to them.
   A certain young man, having given his mother a kick, touched with a
   lively repentance, confessed it to S. Anthony of Padua; who, to imprint
   the horror of his sin more deeply in his heart, said to him, amongst
   other things: My child, the foot which was the instrument of your
   wickedness would deserve to be cut off for so great a trespass; which
   the youth took in such good earnest, that having returned home to his
   mother, transported with the feeling of contrition, he cut off his
   foot. The words of the Saint would not have had such force, according
   to their ordinary meaning, unless God had added his inspiration
   thereunto; but it was so extraordinary an inspiration that it must
   rather have been considered a temptation, if the miraculous restoration
   of his foot, effected by the Saint's benediction, had not warranted it.
   S. Paul the first hermit, S. Anthony, S. Mary of Egypt, did not bury
   themselves in those vast wildernesses--deprived of hearing Mass, of
   Communion, of Confession, and deprived, young as they were, of all
   direction and assistance,--without a strong inspiration. The great
   Simeon Stylites led a life that never mortal creature would have dreamt
   of or undertaken without heavenly instinct and assistance. S. John,
   bishop, surnamed the Silent, forsaking his diocese without the
   knowledge of any of his clergy, passed the rest of his days in the
   Monastery of Laura, nor was there afterwards any news heard of him. Was
   not this contrary to the rule of keeping holy residence? And the great
   S. Paulinus, who sold himself to ransom a poor widow's son, how could
   he do it according to ordinary laws, since he was not his own, but, by
   his episcopal consecration, belonged to the Church and his people?
   Those virgins and married women who, being pursued for their beauty,
   with voluntary wounds disfigured their faces, that under the mask of a
   holy deformity they might preserve their chastity, did they not do a
   thing, apparently, forbidden?

   Now one of the best marks of the goodness of all inspirations in
   general, and particularly of extraordinary ones, is the peace and
   tranquillity of the heart that receives them: for though indeed the
   Holy Ghost is violent, yet his violence is gentle, sweet and peaceful.
   He comes as a mighty wind, [393] and as a heavenly thunder, but he does
   not overthrow the Apostles, he troubles them not; the fear which they
   had in hearing the sound was of no continuance, but was immediately
   followed by a sweet assurance. That is why this fire sits upon each of
   them, taking and causing a sacred repose; and as our Saviour is called
   a peaceful or pacific Solomon, so is his spouse called Sulamitess, calm
   and daughter of peace: and the voice, that is, the inspiration, of the
   bridegroom does not in any sort disquiet or trouble her, but draws her
   so sweetly that he makes her soul deliciously melt and, as it were,
   flow out into him: My soul, says she, melted when my beloved spoke:
   [394] and though she be warlike and martial, yet is she withal so
   peaceable, that amidst armies and battles she maintains the concord of
   an unequalled melody. What shalt thou see, saith she, in the Sulamitess
   but the choirs of armies? [395] Her armies are choirs, that is,
   harmonies of singers; and her choirs are armies, because the weapons of
   the Church and of the devout soul, are only prayers, hymns, canticles
   and psalms. Thus it is that those servants of God who had the highest
   and sublimest inspirations were the most mild and peaceable men in the
   world, as Abraham, Isaac, Jacob: Moses is styled the meekest of men;
   David is lauded for his mildness. On the contrary, the evil spirit is
   turbulent, rough, disturbing; and those who follow infernal
   suggestions, taking them to be heavenly inspirations, are as a rule
   easily known, because they are unquiet, headstrong, haughty, ready to
   undertake or meddle with all affairs, men who under the cloak of zeal
   turn everything upside down, censure every one, chide every one, find
   fault with everything; they are persons who will not be directed, will
   not give in to any one, will bear nothing, but gratify the passions of
   self-love under the name of jealousy for God's honour.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [393] Acts ii. 2.

   [394] Cant. v. 6.

   [395] Cant. vii. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   THIRD MARK OF INSPIRATION, WHICH IS HOLY OBEDIENCE TO THE CHURCH AND
   SUPERIORS.

   To peace and sweetness of heart is inseparably joined most holy
   humility. But I do not term humility, that ceremonious profusion of
   words, gestures, and kissings of the ground, obeisances,
   inclinations,--when they are made, as often happens, without any inward
   sense of our own abjection and of just esteem of our neighbour: for all
   this is but a vain occupation of weak brains, and is rather to be
   termed a phantom of humility, than humility.

   I speak of a noble, real, productive and solid humility, which makes us
   supple to correction, pliable and prompt to obedience. While the
   incomparable Simeon Stylites was yet a novice at Teleda, he made
   himself indocile to the advice of his superiors, who wished to hinder
   him from practising so many strange austerities, which he did with an
   inordinate cruelty to himself; so that at length he was on this account
   turned out of the monastery, as being too little capable of the
   mortification of the heart, and too much addicted to that of the body.
   But having entered into himself and become more devout, and more
   prudent in the spiritual life, he behaved quite differently, as he
   showed in the following action. When the hermits who were dispersed
   through the deserts near Antioch knew the extraordinary life which he
   led upon the pillar, in which he seemed to be either an earthly angel
   or a heavenly man, they despatched a messenger whom they ordered to
   speak thus to him from them: Why dost thou, Simeon, leaving the highway
   trodden by so many great and holy predecessors, follow another, unknown
   of men, and so different from all that has been seen or heard to this
   day? Simeon, quit this pillar, and come amongst other men to live,
   after the manner of life and way of serving God used by the good
   Fathers who have gone before us. In case Simeon, yielding to their
   advice and giving in to their will, should show himself ready to
   descend, they had charged the deputy to leave him free to persevere in
   the manner of life he had begun, because by his obedience, said those
   good Fathers, it could well be known that he had undertaken this kind
   of life by the divine inspiration: but in case he should resist, and,
   despising their exhortations, follow his own will, it would be
   necessary to withdraw him thence by violence, and force him to forsake
   his pillar. The deputy then, being come to the pillar, had no sooner
   delivered his message, than the great Simeon, without delay, without
   reservation, without any reply, began to descend with an obedience and
   humility worthy of his rare sanctity. Which when the deputy saw: stay,
   said he, O Simeon! remain there, persevere with constancy, take
   courage, pursue thy enterprise valiantly; thy abiding upon this pillar
   is from God.

   But mark, I pray you, Theotimus, how these ancient and holy anchorites
   in their general meeting, found no surer mark of a heavenly inspiration
   in so extraordinary a matter as was the life of this holy Stylite, than
   to find him simple, gentle, and tractable, under the laws of holy
   obedience; and God, blessing the submission of this great man, gave him
   the grace to persevere thirty whole years upon the top of a pillar
   thirty-six cubits high, having previously passed seven years upon
   others of six, twelve, and twenty feet, and having before that been ten
   years on the peak of a little rock in the place called the Mandra. Thus
   this bird of paradise, living above in air, and not touching earth, was
   a spectacle of love to the angels, and of admiration to mortals. In
   obedience all is secure, out of it all is to be suspected.

   When God puts inspirations into a heart, the first he gives is
   obedience. Was there ever a more illustrious and unmistakable
   inspiration than that which was given to the glorious S. Paul? And the
   principal point of it was, that he should repair to the city, where he
   should learn from the mouth of Ananias what he was to do, and this
   Ananias, a very famous man, was, as S. Dorotheus says, the Bishop of
   Damascus. Whosoever says he is inspired, and yet refuses to obey his
   superiors and follow their counsel, is an impostor. All the Prophets
   and Preachers that ever were inspired by God, always loved the Church,
   always adhered to her doctrine, always were approved by her, nor did
   they ever announce anything so distinctly as this truth, that the lips
   of the priest shall keep wisdom, and they shall seek the law at his
   mouth. [396] So that extraordinary missions are diabolical illusions,
   not heavenly inspirations, unless they be acknowledged and approved by
   the pastors who have the ordinary mission. For thus Moses and the
   prophets are reconciled. S. Francis, S. Dominic, and the other Fathers
   of Religious Orders, were called to the service of souls by an
   extraordinary inspiration, but they did so much the more humbly and
   heartily submit themselves to the sacred Hierarchy of the Church. In
   conclusion, the three best and most assured marks of lawful
   inspirations, are perseverance, against inconstancy and levity; peace
   and gentleness of heart, against disquiet and solicitude; humble
   obedience, against obstinacy and extravagance.

   And to conclude all that we have said touching the union of our will
   with that will of God which is called signified;--almost all the herbs
   which bear yellow flowers, yea, the chicory also which bears blue ones,
   ever turn them towards the sun, and thus follow its course: but the
   sunflower turns not only its flowers but also all its leaves, after the
   movements of this great luminary. In the same way all the elect turn
   the flower of their heart, which is obedience to the commandments,
   towards the Divine will, but souls entirely taken with holy love not
   only look towards this Divine goodness by obedience to the
   commandments, but also by the union of all their affections, following
   this heavenly sun in his round, in all that he commands, counsels and
   inspires, without reserve or exception whatever; whence they can say
   with the sacred Psalmist: Lord, I am become as a beast before thee: and
   I am always with thee. Thou hast held me by my right hand; and by thy
   will thou hast conducted me, and with thy glory thou hast received me.
   [397] For as a well-broken horse is easily, gently and exactly managed
   by his rider, in any way that is required, so the loving soul is so
   pliable to God's will that he does with her what he pleases.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [396] Mal. ii. 7.

   [397] Ps. lxxii. 24, 23
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   A SHORT METHOD TO KNOW GOD'S WILL.

   S. Basil says that God's will is made clear unto us by his ordinances
   or commandments, and that then there is no deliberation to be made, for
   we are simply to do what is ordained; but that for the rest we have
   freedom to choose what seems good according to our liking; though we
   are not to do all that is lawful but only what is expedient, and to
   clearly discern what is expedient we are to follow the advice of our
   spiritual father.

   But, Theotimus, I am to warn you of a troublesome temptation which
   often crosses the way of such souls as have a great desire to do what
   is most according to God's will. For the enemy at every turn puts them
   in doubt whether it is God's will for them to do one thing rather than
   another; as for example, whether they should eat with a friend or no,
   whether they should wear grey or black clothes, whether they should
   fast Friday or Saturday, whether they should take recreation or abstain
   from it; and in this they lose much time, and while they are busy and
   anxious to find out what is the better, they unprofitably let slip the
   time for doing many good things, the effecting of which would be far
   more to God's glory, than this distinguishing between the good and the
   better, which has taken up their time, could possibly be.

   We are not accustomed to weigh little money, but only valuable pieces:
   trading would be too troublesome and would devour too much time, if we
   were to weigh pence, halfpence, farthings and half-farthings. So we are
   not to weigh every petty action to know whether it be of more value
   than others; yea there is often a kind of superstition in trying to
   make this examination; for to what end should we puzzle to know whether
   it were better to hear Mass in one church than in another, to spin than
   to sew, to give alms to a man rather than a woman? It is not good
   service to a master to spend as much time in considering what is to be
   done, as in doing the things which are to be done. We are to proportion
   our attention to the importance of what we undertake. It would be an
   ill-regulated carefulness to take as much trouble in deliberating over
   a journey of one day as over one of three or four hundred leagues.

   The choice of one's vocation, the plan of some business of great
   consequence, of some work occupying much time, of some very great
   expenditure, the change of abode, the choice of society, and the like,
   deserve to be seriously pondered, in order to see what is most
   according to the will of God. But in little daily matters, in which
   even a mistake is neither of moment nor irreparable, what need is there
   to make a business of them, to scrutinize them, or to importunately ask
   advice about them? To what end should I put myself upon the rack to
   learn whether God would rather that I should say the Rosary or Our
   Lady's Office, since there can be no such difference between them, that
   a great examination need be held; that I should rather go to visit the
   sick in the hospital than to Vespers, that I should rather go to a
   sermon than to a church where there is an Indulgence? Commonly there is
   no such importance in the one more than the other that it is worth
   while to make any great deliberation. We must walk in good faith and
   without minute consideration in such matters, and, as S. Basil says,
   freely choose as we like, so as not to weary our spirit, lose our time,
   or put ourselves in danger of disquiet, scruples, and superstition. But
   I mean always where there is no great disproportion between the two
   works, and where there is nothing of consideration on one side more
   than on the other.

   And even in matters of moment we are to use a great humility, and not
   to think we can find out God's will by force of examination and
   subtlety of discourse; but having implored the light of the Holy Ghost,
   applied our consideration to the seeking of his good-pleasure, taken
   the counsel of our director, and, perhaps, of two or three other
   spiritual persons, we must resolve and determine in the name of God,
   and must not afterwards question our choice, but devoutly, peacefully,
   and firmly keep and pursue it. And although the difficulties,
   temptations and the variety of circumstances which occur in the course
   of executing our design, might cause us some doubt as to whether we had
   made a good choice, yet we must remain settled, and not regard all
   this, but consider that if we had made another choice we had perhaps
   been a hundred times worse; to say nothing of our not knowing whether
   it be God's will that we should be exercised in consolation or
   desolation, in peace or war. The resolution being once holily taken, we
   are never to doubt of the holiness of the execution; for unless we fail
   it cannot fail. To act otherwise is a mark of great self-love, or of
   childishness, weakness and silliness of spirit.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK IX.

   OF THE

LOVE OF SUBMISSION, WHEREBY OUR WILL IS UNITED TO GOD'S GOOD-PLEASURE.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   OF THE UNION OF OUR WILL TO THAT DIVINE WILL WHICH IS CALLED THE WILL
   OF GOOD-PLEASURE.

   Nothing, except sin, is done without that will of God which is called
   absolute, or will of good-pleasure, which no one can hinder, and which
   is only known to us by events: these show us, by their very happening,
   that God has willed and intended them.

   Let us consider, in one view, Theotimus, all that has been, is, and
   shall be, and ravished with amazement, we shall be forced to cry out
   with the Psalmist: I will praise thee, for thou art fearfully
   magnified; wonderful are thy works, and my soul knoweth right well. Thy
   knowledge is become wonderful to me; it is high, and I cannot reach to
   it. [398] And from thence we pass on to most holy complacency,
   rejoicing that God is so infinite in wisdom, power and goodness, which
   are the three divine attributes, of which the world is but a small
   evidence, or, as it were, sample.

   Let us behold men and angels and all the variety of nature, of
   qualities, conditions, faculties, affections, passions, graces and
   privileges, which the Divine Providence has established in the
   innumerable multitude of those heavenly intelligences and human
   creatures in whom God's justice and mercy are so admirably exercised,
   and we shall be unable to contain ourselves from singing, with a joy
   full of respect and loving dread; Mercy and judgment I will sing to
   thee, O Lord. [399]

   Theotimus, we are to take an exceeding complacency in seeing how God
   exercises his mercy in so many different benefits which he distributes
   amongst men and angels in heaven and on earth, and how he exerts his
   justice by an infinite, variety of pains and chastisements: for his
   justice and mercy are equally amiable and admirable in themselves,
   since both of them are no other thing than one same most singular
   goodness and divinity. But the effects of his justice being sharp and
   full of bitterness to us, he always sweetens them with the mingling of
   his mercies, preserving the green olive amidst the waters of the deluge
   of his just indignation, and giving power to the devout soul, as to a
   chaste dove, to find it at last, provided always that after the fashion
   of doves she very lovingly ruminate in her mind. So death, afflictions,
   anguish, labours, whereof our life is full, and which by God's just
   ordinance are the punishments of sin, are also, by his sweet mercy,
   ladders to ascend to heaven, means to increase grace, and merits to
   obtain glory. Blessed are poverty, hunger, thirst, sorrow, sickness,
   death, persecution: for they are indeed the just punishments of our
   faults, yet punishments so steeped in, or, to use the physician's term,
   so aromatized with the Divine sweetness, benignity and clemency, that
   their bitterness is most delicious. It is a strange yet a true thing,
   Theotimus; if the damned were not blinded by their obstinacy, and by
   their hatred for God, they would find consolation in their torments,
   and see the divine mercy admirably mingled with their eternally
   tormenting flames. Hence the Saints, considering on the one side the
   horrible and dreadful torments of the damned, praise the Divine justice
   therein, and cry out: Thou art just, O Lord, and thy judgment is right.
   [400] but seeing on the other side that these pains, though eternal and
   incomprehensible, come yet far short of the faults and crimes for which
   they were inflicted--ravished with God's infinite mercy, they cry out:
   O Lord, how good thou art, since in the very heat of thy wrath thou
   canst not keep the torrent of thy mercies from pouring out its waters
   on the pitiless flames of hell!

   Mercy, O Lord, hath not thy soul forsaken,

   E'en while thy justice hath its vengeance taken

   In flames of hell; nor could thine ire repress

   The torrent of thy wonted graciousness:

   In fiercest wrath thou still dost interlace

   Thy sternest justice with thine acts of grace.


   Let us come, next, to ourselves in particular, and behold the multitude
   of interior and exterior goods, as also the very great number of
   interior and exterior pains, which the Divine Providence has prepared
   for us: and, as if opening the arms of our consent, let us most
   lovingly embrace all this, acquiescing in God's most holy will, and
   singing unto him as it were a hymn of eternal acquiescence: Thy will be
   done on earth as it is in heaven: yea, Lord, thy will be done on
   earth,--where we have no pleasure which is not mixed with some pain, no
   roses without thorns, no day without following night, no spring without
   preceding winter; on earth, O Lord! where consolations are thinly, and
   labours thickly, sown: yet, O God! thy will be done, not only in
   carrying out thy commandments, counsels and inspirations, which are
   things to be done by us, but also in suffering the afflictions and
   pains which have to be borne by us; so that thy will may do by us, for
   us, in us, and with us, all that it pleases.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [398] Ps. cxxxviii. 14, 6

   [399] Ps. c. 1.

   [400] Ps. cxviii. 137.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   THAT THE UNION OF OUR WILL WITH THE GOOD-PLEASURE OF GOD TAKES PLACE
   PRINCIPALLY IN TRIBULATIONS.

   Painful things cannot indeed be loved when considered in themselves,
   but viewed in their source, that is, in the Divine Will and Providence
   which ordains them, they are supremely delightful. Look at the rod of
   Moses upon the ground, and it is a hideous serpent; look upon it in
   Moses's hand, and it is a wand of miracles. Look at tribulations in
   themselves, and they are dreadful; behold them in the will of God, and
   they are love and delights. How often have we turned in disgust from
   remedies and medicines when the doctor or apothecary offered them,
   which, being offered by some well-beloved hand (love surmounting our
   loathing), we receive with delight. In truth, love either takes away
   the hardship of labour, or makes it dear to us while we feel it. It is
   said that there is a river in Boeotia wherein the fish appear golden,
   but taken out of those their native waters, they have the natural
   colour of other fishes: afflictions are so; if we look at them outside
   God's will, they have their natural bitterness, but he who considers
   them in that eternal good-pleasure, finds them all golden, unspeakably
   lovely and precious.

   If Abraham had seen outside God's will the necessity of slaying his
   son, think, Theotimus, what pangs and convulsions of heart he would
   have felt, but seeing it in God's good-pleasure, it appears all golden,
   and he tenderly embraces it. If the martyrs had looked upon their
   torments outside this good-pleasure, how could they have sung, in
   chains and flames? The truly loving heart loves God's good-pleasure not
   in consolations only but in afflictions also; yea, it loves it better
   upon the cross in pains and difficulties, because the principal effect
   of love is to make the lover suffer for the thing beloved.

   The Stoics, especially good Epictetus, placed all their philosophy in
   abstaining and sustaining, bearing and forbearing; in abstaining from
   and forbearing earthly delights, pleasures and honours; in sustaining
   and bearing wrongs, labours and trials: but Christian doctrine, which
   is the only true philosophy, has three principles upon which it grounds
   all its exercises,--abnegation of self, which is far more than to
   abstain from pleasures, carrying the cross, which is far more than
   tolerating or sustaining it, following Our Lord, not only in renouncing
   our self and bearing our cross, but also in the practice of all sorts
   of good works. But at the same time there is not so much love shown in
   abnegation or in action, as in suffering. The Holy Ghost in Holy
   Scripture certainly signifies the death and passion which our Saviour
   suffered for us, to be the highest point of his love towards us.

   1. To love God's will in consolations is a good love when it is indeed
   God's will that is loved, and not the consolation which is the form it
   takes: however, this is a love without contradiction, repugnance and
   effort: for who would not love so worthy a will in so agreeable a
   form?  2. To love the will of God in his commandments, counsels and
   inspirations is a second degree of love, and much more perfect, for it
   leads us to the renouncing and quitting of our own will, and makes us
   abstain from and forbear some pleasures, though not all.  3. To love
   sufferings and afflictions for the love of God is the supreme point of
   most holy charity, for there is nothing therein to receive our
   affection save the will of God only; there is great contradiction on
   the part of nature; and we not only forsake pleasures, but embrace
   torments and labours.

   Our mortal enemy knew well what was love's furthest and finest act,
   when having heard from the mouth of God that Job was just, righteous,
   fearing God, hating sin, and firm in innocence, he made no account of
   this, in comparison with bearing afflictions, by which he made the last
   and surest trial of the love of this great servant of God. To make
   these afflictions extreme, he formed them out of the loss of all his
   goods and of all his children, abandonment by all his friends, an
   arrogant contradiction by his most intimate associates and his wife, a
   contradiction full of contempt, mockery and reproach; to which be added
   the collection of almost all human diseases, and particularly a
   universal, cruel, offensive, horrible ulcer over all his body.

   And yet behold the great Job, king as it were of all the miserable
   creatures of the world, seated upon a dunghill, as upon the throne of
   misery, adorned with sores, ulcers, and corruption, as with royal robes
   suitable to the quality of his kingship, with so great an abjection and
   annihilation, that if he had not spoken, one could not have discerned
   whether Job was a man reduced to a dunghill, or the dunghill a
   corruption in form of a man. Now, I say, hear the great Job crying out:
   If we have received good things from the hand of the Lord, why shall we
   not receive also evil? [401] O God! How this word is great with love!
   He ponders, Theotimus, that it was from the hand of God that he had
   received the good, testifying that he had not so much loved goods
   because they were good, as because they came from the hand of the Lord;
   whence he concludes that he is lovingly to support adversities, since
   they proceed from the hand of the same Lord, which is equally to be
   loved when it distributes afflictions and when it bestows consolations.
   Every one easily receives good things, but to receive evil is a work of
   perfect love, which loves them so much the more, inasmuch as they are
   only lovable in respect of the hand that gives them.

   The traveller who is in fear whether he has the right way, walks in
   doubt, viewing the country over, and stands in a muse at the end of
   almost every field to think whether he goes not astray, but he who is
   sure of his way walks on gaily, boldly, and swiftly: even so the love
   that desires to walk to God's will through consolations, walks ever in
   fear of taking the wrong path, and of loving (in lieu of God's
   good-pleasure) the pleasure which is in the consolation; but the love
   that strikes straight through afflictions towards the will of God walks
   in assurance, for affliction being in no wise lovable in itself, it is
   an easy thing only to love it for the sake of him that sends it. The
   hounds in spring-time are at fault at every step, finding hardly any
   scent at all, because the herbs and flowers then smell so freshly that
   their odour puts down that of the hart or hare: in the spring-time of
   consolations love scarcely recognizes God's good-pleasure, because the
   sensible pleasure of consolation so allures the heart, that it troubles
   the attention which the heart should pay to the will of God. S.
   Catharine of Siena, having from our Saviour her choice of a crown of
   gold or a crown of thorns, chose this latter, as better suiting with
   love: a desire of suffering, says the Blessed (S.) Angela of Foligno,
   is an infallible mark of love: and the great Apostle cries out that he
   glories only in the cross, [402] in infirmity, in persecution.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [401] Job ii. 10.

   [402] Gal. vi. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   OF THE UNION OF OUR WILL TO THE DIVINE GOOD-PLEASURE IN SPIRITUAL
   AFFLICTIONS, BY RESIGNATION.

   The love of the cross makes us undertake voluntary afflictions, as for
   example, fasting, watching, hair-shirts and other macerations of the
   flesh, and makes us renounce pleasures, honours and riches: and the
   love in these exercises is very delightful to the beloved. Yet it is
   still more so when we receive sweetly and contentedly pains, torments
   and tribulations, by reason of the Divine will which sends us them. But
   love is then at its height when we not only receive afflictions with
   patience and sweetness, but cherish, love, and embrace them for the
   sake of the Divine good-pleasure, whence they proceed.

   Now of all the efforts of perfect love, that which is made by
   acquiescence of spirit in spiritual tribulations, is doubtless the
   purest and noblest. The Blessed (S.) Angela of Foligno makes an
   admirable description of the interior pangs which she sometimes felt,
   saying that her soul was tortured like to a man who being tied hand and
   foot, should be hung by the neck without being strangled, and should
   hang in this state betwixt life and death, without hope of help, and
   unable to support himself by his feet or assist himself with his hands,
   or to cry out, or even to sigh or moan. It is thus, Theotimus: the soul
   is sometimes so overcharged with interior afflictions, that all her
   faculties and powers are oppressed by the privation of all that might
   relieve her, and by the apprehension and feeling of all that can be
   grievous to her. So that in imitation of her Saviour she begins to be
   troubled, to fear, and to be dismayed, and at length to sadden with a
   sadness like to that of the dying. Whence she may rightly say: My soul
   is sorrowful even unto death; and with the consent of her whole
   interior, she desires, petitions, supplicates, that, if it be possible,
   this chalice may pass, having nothing left her save the very supreme
   point of her spirit, which cleaving hard to the divine will and
   good-pleasure, says in a most sincere submission: O eternal Father, Ah!
   not mine but thy will be done. And the main point is that the soul
   makes this resignation amidst such a world of troubles, contradictions,
   repugnances that she hardly even perceives that she makes it; at least
   it seems done so coldly as not to be done from her heart nor properly,
   since what then goes on for the divine good-pleasure is not only done
   without delight and contentment, but even against the pleasure and
   liking of all the rest of the heart, which is permitted by love to
   bemoan itself (if only for the reason that it may not bemoan itself)
   and to sigh out all the lamentations of Job and Jeremias, yet with the
   condition that a sacred peace be still preserved in the depths of the
   heart, in the highest and most delicate point of the spirit. But this
   submissive peace is not tender or sweet, it is scarcely sensible,
   though sincere, strong, unchangeable and full of love, and it seems to
   have betaken itself to the very end of the spirit as into the
   donjon-keep of the fort, where it remains in its high courage, though
   all the rest be taken and oppressed with sorrow: and in this case, the
   more love is deprived of all helps, and cut off from the aid of the
   powers and faculties of the soul, the more it is to be esteemed for
   preserving its fidelity so constantly.

   This union or conformity with the divine good-pleasure is made either
   by holy Resignation or by most holy Indifference. Now resignation is
   practised with a certain effort of submission: one would willingly live
   instead of dying, yet since it is God's pleasure that die we must, we
   yield to it. We would willingly live, if it pleased God, yea, further,
   we wish that it was his pleasure to let us live: we die submissively,
   yet more willingly would we live; we depart with a reasonably good
   will, yet we have a still stronger inclination to stay. Job in his
   afflictions made the act of resignation: If we have received good
   things at the hand of God, said he, why should we not receive the evil,
   [403] why not sustain the pains and toils he sends us? Mark, Theotimus,
   how he speaks of sustaining, supporting, enduring; As it hath pleased
   the Lord so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord. [404] These
   are words of resignation and acceptance, by way of suffering and
   patience.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [403] Job ii. 10.

   [404] Job i. 21.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   OF THE UNION OF OUR WILL TO THE GOOD-PLEASURE OF GOD BY INDIFFERENCE.

   Resignation prefers God's will before all things, yet it loves many
   other things besides the will of God. Indifference goes beyond
   resignation: for it loves nothing except for the love of God's will:
   insomuch that nothing can stir the indifferent heart, in the presence
   of the will of God. It is true that the most indifferent heart in the
   world may be touched with some affection, so long as it does not know
   where the will of God is. Eliezer being come to the fountain of Haran,
   saw the virgin Rebecca, and found her lovely and amiable beyond his
   expectation; but yet he stayed in Indifference, till he knew by a sign
   from God, that the Divine will had prepared her for his master's son;
   then he presented her with the earrings and bracelets of gold. On the
   contrary, if Jacob had only loved in Rachel the alliance with Laban, to
   which his father Isaac had obliged him, Lia would have been as dear
   unto him as Rachel, they being both Laban's daughters; and consequently
   his father's will would have been as well fulfilled in the one as in
   the other. But because, besides his father's will, he desired to
   satisfy his own liking, charmed with the beauty and grace of Rachel, he
   disliked marrying Lia, and took her against his inclination,
   resignedly.

   But the indifferent heart is not such; for knowing that tribulation,
   though hard-favoured as another Lia, ceases not on that account to be
   daughter and well-beloved daughter to the Divine pleasure, it loves her
   as much as consolation, though the latter be in herself more
   amiable;--yea, it loves tribulation more, because it sees nothing
   amiable in her save the mark of God's will. If I desire pure water
   only, what care I whether it be served in a golden vessel or in a
   glass, as in either case I take only the water: yea, I would rather
   have it in a glass, because this has no other colour than water itself,
   which thus I also see better. What matter whether God's will be
   presented to us in tribulation or in consolation, since I seek nothing
   in either of them but God's will, which is so much the better seen when
   there is no other beauty present save that of this most holy, eternal,
   good-pleasure.

   Heroic, yea more than heroic, was the Indifference of the incomparable
   S. Paul. I am straitened, said he, between two, having a desire to be
   dissolved and to be with Christ, a thing by far the better. But to
   abide still in the flesh is needful for you. [405] Wherein he was
   followed by the great Bishop S. Martin, who having come to the end of
   his life, pressed with an extreme desire to go to his God, did yet
   testify that he would most willingly remain amongst the labours of his
   charge, for the good of his flock, as if after having sung this
   canticle: How lovely are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! My soul
   longeth and fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh
   have rejoiced in the living God: [406] --went on to make this
   exclamation: "Yet O Lord, if I am still necessary for the salvation of
   your people, I refuse not the labour,--your will be done." Admirable
   the Indifference of the Apostle, admirable that of this Apostolic man!
   They see heaven open for them, they see a thousand labours on earth,
   they are indifferent in the choice of either: nothing but the will of
   God can set their hearts at rest; heaven appears no more pleasant than
   worldly miseries, if God's good-pleasure be equally in them both:
   labours are a heaven if God's will be found in them, and heaven is
   unhappiness if it be not found therein; for as David said, they desire
   nothing in heaven or earth except to see God's good-pleasure
   accomplished. What have I in heaven, and besides thee what do I desire
   upon earth? [407]

   The indifferent heart is as a ball of wax in the hands of its God,
   receiving with equal readiness all the impressions of the Divine
   pleasure; it is a heart without choice, equally disposed for
   everything, having no other object of its will than the will of its
   God, and placing its affection not upon the things that God wills, but
   upon the will of God who wills them. Wherefore, when God's will is in
   various things, it chooses, at any cost, that in which it appears most.
   God's will is found in marriage and in virginity, but because it is
   more in virginity, the indifferent heart makes choice of virginity
   though this cost it its life, as with S. Paul's dear spiritual daughter
   S. Thecla, with S. Cecily, S. Agatha, and a thousand others. God's will
   is found in the service of the poor and of the rich, but yet somewhat
   more in serving the poor; the indifferent heart will choose that side.
   God's will lies in moderation amid consolations, and in patience amid
   tribulations: the indifferent heart prefers the latter, as having more
   of God's will in it. To conclude, God's will is the sovereign object of
   the indifferent soul; wheresoever she sees it she runs after the odour
   of its perfumes, directing her course ever thither where it most
   appears, without considering anything else. She is conducted by the
   Divine will, as by a beloved chain; which way soever it goes, she
   follows it: she would prize hell more with God's will than heaven
   without it; nay she would even prefer hell before heaven if she
   perceived only a little more of God's good-pleasure in that than in
   this, so that if by supposition of an impossible thing she should know
   that her damnation would be more agreeable to God than her salvation,
   she would quit her salvation and run to her damnation.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [405] Phil. i. 23.

   [406] Ps. lxxxiii. 1.

   [407] Ps. lxxii. 25.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   THAT HOLY INDIFFERENCE EXTENDS TO ALL THINGS.

   Indifference is to be practised in things belonging to the natural
   life, as in health, sickness, beauty, deformity, weakness, strength: in
   the affairs of the spiritual life, as in dryness, consolations, relish,
   aridity; in actions, in sufferings,--briefly, in all sorts of events.
   Job, in his natural life was struck with the most horrible sores that
   ever eye beheld, in his civil life he was scorned, reviled, contemned,
   and that by his nearest friends; in his spiritual life he was oppressed
   with languors, oppression, convulsions, anguish, darkness, and with all
   kinds of intolerable interior griefs, as his complaints and
   lamentations bear witness. The great Apostle proclaims to us a general
   Indifference; to show ourselves the true servants of God, in much
   patience, in tribulation, in necessities, an distresses, in stripes, in
   prisons, in seditions, in labours, in watchings, in fastings; in
   chastity; in knowledge, in long-suffering, in sweetness, in the Holy
   Ghost, in charity unfeigned, in the word of truth, in the power of God;
   by the armour of justice on the right hand and on the left, through
   honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report: as deceivers, and
   yet true; as unknown and yet known; as dying, and behold we live; as
   chastised and not killed; as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing: as needy,
   yet enriching many; as having nothing, and possessing all things. [408]

   Take notice, I pray you, Theotimus, how the life of the Apostles was
   filled with afflictions: in the body by wounds, in the heart by
   anguish, according to the world by infamy and prisons, and in all
   these,--O God! what Indifference they had! Their sorrow is joyous,
   their poverty rich, their death life-giving, their dishonour
   honourable, that is, they are joyful for being sad, content to be poor,
   strengthened with life amid the dangers of death, and glorious in being
   made vile, because--such was the will of God. And whereas the will of
   God was more recognized in sufferings than in the actions of virtues,
   he ranks the exercise of patience first, saying: But in all things let
   us exhibit ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience, in
   tribulation, in necessities, in distresses: and then, towards the end,
   in chastity, in knowledge, in long-suffering.

   In like manner our divine Saviour was incomparably afflicted in his
   civil life, being condemned as guilty of treason against God and man;
   beaten, scourged, reviled, and tormented with extraordinary ignominy;
   in his natural life, dying in the most cruel and sensible torments that
   heart could conceive; in his spiritual life enduring sorrows, fears,
   terrors, anguish, abandonment, interior oppressions, such as never had,
   nor shall have, their like. For though the supreme portion of his soul
   did sovereignly enjoy eternal glory, yet love hindered this glory from
   spreading its delicious influence into the feelings, or the
   imagination, or the inferior reason, leaving thus his whole heart at
   the mercy of sorrow and distress.

   Ezechiel saw the likeness of a hand, which took him by a single lock of
   the hairs of his head, lifting him up between heaven and earth; [409]
   in like manner our Saviour, lifted up on the cross between heaven and
   earth, seemed to be held in his Father's hand only by the very
   extremity of the spirit, and, as it were, by one hair of his head,
   which, touching the sweet hand of his eternal Father, received a
   sovereign affluence of felicity, all the rest being swallowed up in
   sorrow and grief: whereupon he cries out: My God, why hast thou
   forsaken me?

   They say that the fish termed lantern-of-the-sea in the midst of the
   tempest thrusts out of the water her tongue, which is so luminous,
   resplendent and clear, that it serves as a light or beacon for
   mariners. So in the sea of passions by which Our Lord was overwhelmed,
   all the faculties of his soul were, so to say, swallowed up and buried
   in the whirlpool of so many pains, excepting only the point of his
   spirit, which, exempt from all trouble, remained bright and resplendent
   with glory and felicity. Oh how blessed is the love which reigns in the
   heights of the spirit of faithful souls, while they are tossed upon the
   billows and waves of interior tribulations!

     __________________________________________________________________

   [408] 2 Cor. vi. 4-10

   [409] Ezech. viii. 3.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   OF THE PRACTICE OF LOVING INDIFFERENCE, IN THINGS BELONGING TO THE
   SERVICE OF GOD.

   The divine good-pleasure is scarcely known otherwise than by events,
   and as long as it is unknown to us, we must keep as close as possible
   to the will of God which is already declared or signified to us: but as
   soon as the Divine Majesty's pleasure appears, we must at once lovingly
   yield ourselves to its obedience.

   My mother (or it would be the same of myself) is ill in bed how do I
   know whether God intends death to follow or not? Of course I cannot
   know; but I know well that while awaiting the event from his
   good-pleasure, he wills, by his declared will, that I use remedies
   proper to effect a cure. But if it be the Divine pleasure that the
   disease, victorious over the remedies, should at last bring death--as
   soon as ever I am certain of this by the actual event, I will amorously
   acquiesce, in the point of my spirit, in spite of all the opposition of
   the inferior powers of my soul. Yes, Lord, I will say, it is my will
   because thy good-pleasure is such; thus it has pleased thee, and so it
   shall please me, who am the most humble servant of thy will.

   But if the Divine pleasure were declared to me before the event took
   place, as was to the great S. Peter the manner of his death, to the
   great S. Paul his chains and prisons, to Jeremias the destruction of
   his dear Jerusalem, to David the death of his son,--then we should have
   at the same instant to unite our will to God's in imitation of the
   great Abraham, and, like him, if we had such a command, we should have
   to undertake the execution of the eternal decree even in the slaying of
   our children: Oh admirable union of this patriarch's will to the will
   of God, when, believing that it was the Divine pleasure that he should
   sacrifice his child, he willed and undertook it so courageously!
   admirable that of the child, who so meekly submitted himself to his
   father's sword, to have God's good-pleasure performed at the price of
   his own death!

   But note here, Theotimus, a mark of the perfect union of an indifferent
   heart with the Divine pleasure. Behold Abraham with the sword in his
   hand, his arm extended ready to give the deathblow to his dear only
   son: he is doing this to please the Divine will; and see at the same
   time an angel, who, on the part of this same will, suddenly stops him,
   and immediately he holds his stroke, equally ready to sacrifice or not
   to sacrifice his son; whose life and whose death are indifferent to him
   in the presence of God's will. When God gives him an order to sacrifice
   his son he does not grow sad, when God dispenses with the order given
   he does not rejoice, all is one to this great heart, so that God's will
   be fulfilled.

   Yes, Theotimus, for God oftentimes to exercise us in this holy
   Indifference, inspires us with very high designs, which yet he will not
   have accomplished, and as then we are boldly, courageously and
   constantly to commence and to pursue the work as far as we can, so are
   we sweetly and quietly to acquiesce in such result of our enterprise as
   it pleases God to send us. S. Louis by inspiration passed the sea to
   conquer the Holy Land; the event answered not his expectation, he
   sweetly acquiesces. I more esteem the tranquillity of this submission
   than the magnanimity of his enterprise. S. Francis went into Egypt to
   convert the infidels, or amongst the infidels to die a martyr; such was
   the will of God: yet he returned without performing either, and that
   was also God's will. It was equally the will of God that S. Anthony of
   Padua desired martyrdom and that he obtained it not. Blessed (S.)
   Ignatius of Loyola having with such pains put on foot the Company of
   the name of Jesus, from which he saw so many fair fruits and foresaw
   many more in the time to come, had yet the nobility of soul to promise
   himself that though he should see it dissolved (which would be the
   bitterest pain that could befal him), within half an hour afterwards he
   would be stayed and tranquil in the will of God. John of Avila, that
   holy and learned preacher of Andalusia, having a design to form a
   company of reformed priests for the advancement of God's glory, and
   having already made good progress in the matter, as soon as he saw the
   Jesuits in the field, thinking they were enough for that time,
   immediately stopped his own undertaking, with an incomparable meekness
   and humility. Oh how blessed are such souls, bold and strong in the
   undertakings God proposes to them, and withal tractable and facile in
   giving them over when God so disposes! These are marks of a most
   perfect Indifference, to leave off doing a good when God pleases, and
   to return from half way when God's will, which is our guide, ordains
   it. Jonas was much to blame in being angry because God, as he
   considered, did not fulfil his prophecy upon Ninive. Jonas did God's
   will in announcing the destruction of Ninive; but he mingled his own
   interest and will with that of God; whence, seeing that God did not
   fulfil his prediction according to the rigour of the words he had used
   in announcing it, he was offended and shamefully murmured. Whereas if
   God's will had been the only motive of his actions, he would have been
   as well content to have seen it accomplished in remission of the
   penalty which Ninive had merited, as in punishment of the fault which
   Ninive had committed. We desire that what we undertake or manage should
   succeed, but it is not reasonable that God should do all after our
   liking. If God wills Ninive to be threatened, and yet not overthrown
   (since the threat is sufficient to correct it), why should Jonas think
   himself aggrieved?

   But if this be so, we are then to care for (affectionner) nothing, but
   abandon our affairs to the mercy of events? Pardon me, Theotimus, we
   are to omit nothing which is requisite to bring the work which God has
   put into our hands to a happy issue, yet upon condition that, if the
   event be contrary, we should lovingly and peaceably embrace it. For we
   are commanded to have great care in what appertains to God's glory and
   to our charge, but we are not bound to, or responsible for, the event,
   because it is not in our power. Take care of him, was it said to the
   innkeeper, in the parable of the poor man who lay half-dead between
   Jerusalem and Jericho. It is not said, as St. Bernard remarks, cure
   him, but, take care of him. So the Apostles with most earnest affection
   preached first to the Jews, though they foresaw that in the end they
   would be forced to leave them as an unfruitful soil, and betake
   themselves to the Gentiles. It is our part to plant and water
   carefully, but to give increase--that belongs only to God.

   The great Psalmist makes this prayer to our Saviour as by an
   exclamation of joy and with presage of victory: O Lord in thy
   comeliness and thy beauty, bend thy bow, proceed prosperously and mount
   thy horse. [410] As though he would say that by the arrows of his
   heavenly love shot into human hearts, he made himself master of men,
   and then handled them at his pleasure, not unlike to a horse well
   trained. O Lord thou art the royal rider, who turnest the hearts of thy
   faithful lovers every way about: sometimes thou givest them the rein,
   and they run at full speed in the courses to which thou impellest them:
   and then, when it seems good to thee, thou makest them stop in the
   midst of their career and at the height of their speed.

   But further, if the enterprise begun by inspiration fail by the fault
   of those to whom it was committed, how can it then be said that a man
   is to acquiesce in God's will? For, some one will say to me, it is not
   God's will that hinders the success, but my fault. This is not caused
   by God's will, for God is not author of sin; but yet for all that, it
   is God's will that your fault should be followed by the overthrow and
   failure of your design, in punishment of your fault; for though his
   goodness cannot permit him to will your fault, yet does his justice
   make him will the punishment you suffer for it. So God was not the
   cause that David offended, yet it was God that inflicted upon him the
   pain due to his sin. He was not the cause of Saul's sin, but he was the
   cause that in punishment of it the victory fell from his hands.

   When therefore it happens that in punishment of our fault our holy
   designs have not good success, we must equally detest the fault by a
   solid repentance, and accept its punishment; for as the sin is against
   the will of God, so the punishment is according to his will.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [410] Ps. xliv. 6. According to the Septuagint and the Hebrew (Tr.)
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   OF THE INDIFFERENCE WHICH WE ARE TO HAVE AS TO OUR ADVANCEMENT IN
   VIRTUES.

   God has ordained that we should employ our whole endeavours to obtain
   holy virtues, let us then forget nothing which might help our good
   success in this pious enterprise. But after we have planted and
   watered, let us then know for certain that it is God who must give
   increase to the trees of our good inclinations and habits, and
   therefore from his Divine Providence we are to expect the fruits of our
   desires and labours, and if we find the progress and advancement of our
   hearts in devotion not such as we would desire, let us not be troubled,
   let us live in peace, let tranquillity always reign in our hearts. It
   belongs to us diligently to cultivate our heart, and therefore we must
   faithfully attend to it, but as for the plenty of the crop or harvest,
   let us leave the care thereof to our Lord and Master. The husbandman
   will never be reprehended for not having a good harvest, but only if he
   did not carefully till and sow his ground. Let us not be troubled at
   finding ourselves always novices in the exercise of virtues, for in the
   monastery of a devout life every one considers himself always a novice,
   and there the whole of life is meant as a probation; the most evident
   argument, not only that we are novices, but also that we are worthy of
   expulsion and reprobation, being, to esteem and hold ourselves
   professed. For according to the rule of this Order not the solemnity
   but the accomplishment of the vows makes the novices professed, nor are
   the vows ever fulfilled while there remains yet something to be done
   for their observance, and the obligation of serving God and making
   progress in his love lasts always until death. But after all, will some
   one say, if I know that it is by my own fault my progress in virtue is
   so slow, how can I help being grieved and disquieted? I have said this
   in the Introduction to a Devout Life, [411] but I willingly say it
   again, because it can never be said sufficiently. We must be sorry for
   faults with a repentance which is strong, settled, constant, tranquil,
   but not troubled, unquiet or fainthearted. Are you sure that your
   backwardness in virtue has come from your fault? Well then, humble
   yourself before God, implore his mercy, fall prostrate before the face
   of his goodness and demand pardon, confess your fault, cry him mercy in
   the very ear of your confessor, so as to obtain absolution; but this
   being done remain in peace, and having detested the offence, embrace
   lovingly the abjection which you feel in yourself by reason of delaying
   your advancement in good.

   Ah! my Theotimus, the souls in Purgatory are there doubtless for their
   sins, and for sins which they have detested and do supremely detest,
   but as for the abjection and pain which remain from being detained in
   that place, and from being deprived for a space of the enjoyment of the
   blessed love which is in Paradise, they endure this lovingly, and they
   devoutly pronounce the canticle of the Divine justice; Thou art just, O
   Lord, and thy judgment is right. [412] Let us therefore await our
   advancement with patience, and instead of disquieting ourselves because
   we have so little profited in the time past, let us diligently
   endeavour to do better in the time to come.

   Behold, I beseech you, this good soul. She has greatly desired and
   endeavoured to throw off the slavery of anger; and God has assisted
   her, for he has quite delivered her from all the sins which proceed
   from anger. She would die rather than utter a single injurious word, or
   let any sign of hatred escape her, and yet she is subject to the
   assaults and first motions of this passion, that is, to certain
   startings, strong movements and sallies of an angry heart, which the
   Chaldaic paraphrase calls stirrings (tremoussements), saying: Be
   stirred and sin not;--where our sacred version says: Be angry and sin
   not. [413] In effect it is the same thing, for the prophet would only
   say that if anger surprise us, exciting in our hearts the first
   stirrings of sin, we should be careful not to let ourselves be carried
   further into this passion, for so we should offend. Now, although these
   first movements and stirrings be no sin, yet the poor soul that is
   often attacked by them, troubles, afflicts and disquiets herself, and
   thinks she does well in being sad, as if it were the love of God that
   provoked her to this sadness. And yet, Theotimus, it is not heavenly
   love that causes this trouble, for that is never offended except by
   sin; it is our self-love that desires to be exempt from the pains and
   toils which the assaults of anger draw on us. It is not the offence
   that displeases us in these stirrings of anger, there being none at all
   committed, it is the pain we are put to in resisting which disquiets
   us.

   These rebellions of the sensual appetite, as well in anger as in
   concupiscence, are left in us for our exercise, to the end that we may
   practise spiritual valour in resisting them. This is that Philistine,
   whom the true Israelites are ever to fight against but never to put
   down; they may weaken him, but never annihilate him. He only dies with
   us, and always lives with us. He is truly accursed, and detestable, as
   springing from sin, and tending towards sin: wherefore, as we are
   termed earth, because we are formed of earth and shall return to earth,
   so this rebellion is named sin by the great Apostle, as having sprung
   from sin and tending to sin, though it never makes us guilty unless we
   second and obey it. Whereupon he exhorts us that we permit it not to
   reign in our mortal body to obey the concupiscence thereof. [414] He
   prohibits not the sentiment of sin, but the consenting to it. He does
   not order us to hinder sin from coming into us and being in us, but he
   commands that it should not reign in us. It is in us when we feel the
   rebellion of the sensual appetite, but it does not reign in us unless
   we give consent unto it. The physician will never order his feverish
   patient not to be athirst, for that would be too great a folly; but he
   will tell him that though he be thirsty he must abstain from drinking.
   No one will tell a woman with child not to have a longing for
   extravagant things, for this is not under her control, but she may well
   be told to discover her longings, to the end that if she longs for
   hurtful things one may divert her imagination, and not let such a fancy
   get a hold on her brain.

   The sting of the flesh, an angel of Satan, roughly attacked the great
   S. Paul, in order to make him fall into sin. The poor Apostle endured
   this as a shameful and infamous wrong, and on this account called it a
   buffeting and ignominious treatment, and petitioned God to deliver him
   from it, but God answered him: Paul, my grace is sufficient for thee,
   for virtue is made perfect in infirmity. [415] Thereupon this great
   holy man said in acquiescence:--Gladly will I glory in my infirmities
   that the power of Christ may dwell in me. But take notice, I beseech
   you, that there is sensual rebellion even in this admirable vessel of
   election, who in running to the remedy of prayer teaches us that we are
   to use the same arms against the temptations we feel. Note further that
   Our Lord does not always permit these terrible revolts in man for the
   punishment of sin, but to manifest the strength and virtue of the
   Divine assistance and grace. Finally, note that we are not only not to
   be disquieted in our temptations and infirmities, but we are even to
   glory in our infirmity that thereby God's virtue may appear in us,
   sustaining our weakness against the force of the suggestion and
   temptation: for the glorious Apostle calls the stings and attacks of
   impurity which he endured his infirmities, and says that he glories in
   them, because, though he had the sense of them by his misery, yet
   through God's mercy he did not give consent to them.

   Indeed, as I have said above, the church condemned the error of certain
   solitaries, who held that we might be perfectly delivered even in this
   world from the passions of anger, concupiscence, fear, and the like.
   God wills us to have enemies, and it is also his will that we should
   repulse them. Let us then behave ourselves courageously between the one
   and the other will of God, enduring with patience to be assaulted, and
   endeavouring with courage by resistance to make head against, and
   resist our assailants.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [411] IV. 11.

   [412] Ps. cxviii. 137.

   [413] Ps. iv. 5.

   [414] Rom. vi. 12.

   [415] 2 Cor. xii. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   HOW WE ARE TO UNITE OUR WILL WITH GOD'S IN THE PERMISSION OF SINS.

   God sovereignly hates sin, and yet he most wisely permits it, in order
   to let the reasonable creature act according to the condition of its
   nature; and to make the good more worthy of commendation, when having
   power to transgress the law they do not transgress it. Let us therefore
   adore and bless this holy permission, but since the Providence which
   permits sin infinitely hates it, let us also detest and hate it,
   desiring with all our power that sin permitted may not be committed,
   and according to this desire let us make use of all means possible to
   hinder the birth, growth and reign of sin. Let us in this imitate our
   Saviour, who never ceases to exhort, promise, threaten, prohibit,
   command and inspire us, in order to turn our will from sin, so far
   forth as is possible without depriving us of liberty: and when the sin
   is once committed let us endeavour what we are able to have it blotted
   out, like our Saviour, who assured Carpus, as was said above, that, if
   it were requisite, he was ready to suffer death again to deliver a
   single soul from sin. But if the sinner grow obstinate, let us weep,
   Theotimus, groan, pray for him, before the Saviour of our souls, who
   having all his lifetime shed an abundance of tears over sinners and
   over those who represented all sinners, died in the end--his eyes full
   of tears, his body all steeped in blood--lamenting the ruin of sinners.
   This affection touched David so to the quick that he fell into a swoon
   over it: A fainting, said he, hath seized me for sinners abandoning thy
   law. [416] And the great Apostle protests that he has a continual
   sorrow in his heart, [417] for the obstinacy of the Jews.

   Meanwhile, however obstinate sinners may be, let us never desist from
   aiding and assisting them. How do we know but that they may do penance
   and be saved? Happy is he that can say to his neighbour as did S. Paul:
   For three years I ceased not with tears to admonish every one of you
   night and day. Wherefore I take you to witness this day that I am clear
   from the blood of all men. For I have not spared to declare unto you
   all the counsel of God. [418] So long as we are within the limits of
   hope that the sinner will amend (which limits are always of the same
   extent as those of his life), we must never reject him, but pray for
   him and assist him as far as his misery will permit.

   But, at last, after we have wept over the obstinate, and performed
   towards them the good offices of charity in trying to reclaim them from
   perdition, we must imitate our Saviour and the Apostles; that is, we
   must divert our spirit from thence and place it upon other objects and
   employments which are more to the advancement of God's glory. To you it
   behoved us first (said the Apostles to the Jews) to speak the word of
   God: but because you reject it, and judge yourselves unworthy of
   eternal life, behold we turn to the Gentiles. [419] The kingdom of God
   (said our Saviour) shall be taken from you, and shall be given to a
   nation yielding the fruits thereof. [420] For we cannot spend too long
   time in bewailing some, without losing time fit and necessary for
   procuring the salvation of others. The Apostle indeed says that the
   loss of the Jews is a continual sorrow to him, but this is said in the
   same sense that we say we praise God always; for we mean no other thing
   thereby than that we praise him very frequently, and on every occasion;
   and in the same manner the glorious St. Paul felt a continual grief in
   his heart on account of the reprobation of the Jews, in the sense that
   on every occasion he bemoaned their misfortune.

   For the rest we must ever adore, love and praise God avenging and
   punishing justice as we love his mercy, being both daughters of his
   goodness; for by his grace he makes us good, being good, yea,
   sovereignly good, himself; by his justice he punishes sin because he
   hates it, and he hates it because, being sovereignly good, he hates the
   sovereign evil which is iniquity: and, in conclusion, note, that God
   never withdraws his mercy from us save by the just vengeance of his
   punishing justice, nor do we ever escape the rigour of his justice but
   by his justifying mercy: and always, whether punishing or favouring us,
   his good-pleasure is worthy of adoration, love and everlasting praise.
   So the just man who sings the praises of the mercy of God over such as
   shall be saved, will also rejoice when he shall see his vengeance. The
   blessed shall with joy approve the sentence of the damnation of the
   reprobate, as well as that of the salvation of the elect: and the
   angels, having exercised their charity towards those that they had in
   keeping, shall remain in peace, when they see them obstinate, yea even
   damned. We are therefore to submit ourselves to the Divine will, and
   kiss the right hand of his mercy and the left hand of his justice, with
   an equal love and reverence.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [416] Ps. cxviii. 53.

   [417] Rom. ix. 2.

   [418] Acts xx. 31, 26, 27.

   [419] Acts xiii. 46.

   [420] Matt. xxi. 43.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   HOW THE PURITY OF INDIFFERENCE IS TO BE PRACTISED IN THE ACTIONS OF
   SACRED LOVE.

   One of the most excellent musicians in the world, who played perfectly
   upon the lute, became in time so extremely deaf that he entirely lost
   the use of his hearing, yet ceased he not for all that to sing and to
   handle his lute marvellous delicately, by reason of the great skill he
   had acquired, of which his deafness did not deprive him. But because he
   had no pleasure in his song, nor yet in the sound of his lute, inasmuch
   as, being deprived of his hearing he could not perceive its sweetness
   and beauty,--he no longer sang or played save only to content a prince
   whose native subject he was, and whom he had an extreme inclination, as
   well as an infinite obligation, to please, because brought up in his
   palace from childhood. Hence he took an incomparable delight in
   pleasing him, and when his prince showed that he was pleased with his
   music he was ravished with delight. But it happened sometimes that the
   prince, to make trial of this loving musician's love, gave him an order
   to sing, and then immediately leaving him there in his chamber, went to
   the chase. The desire which this singer had to accomplish his master's
   will, made him continue his music as attentively as though his prince
   had been present, though in very deed he had no content in singing. For
   he neither had the pleasure of the melody, whereof his deafness
   deprived him, nor the content of pleasing his prince, who being absent
   could not enjoy the sweetness of the beautiful airs he sang.

   My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready: I will sing and rehearse a
   psalm. Arise, O my glory! Arise psaltery and harp: I will arise early.
   [421] Man's heart is the true chaunter of the canticle of sacred love,
   himself the harp and the psaltery. Now ordinarily this chaunter hears
   his own voice, and takes a great pleasure in the melody of his song. I
   mean that our heart, loving God, relishes the delights of this love,
   and takes an incomparable contentment in loving so lovely an object.
   Notice, I pray you, Theotimus, what I mean. The young nightingales do
   first essay a beginning of song to imitate the old ones; but having got
   skill and become masters, they sing for the pleasure which they take in
   warbling, and they so passionately addict themselves to this delight,
   as I have said in another place, that by force of straining their
   voice, their throat bursts and they die. So our hearts in the beginning
   of their devotion love God that they may be united and become agreeable
   unto him, and imitate him in that he hath loved us for all eternity;
   but by little and little being formed and exercised in holy love, they
   are imperceptibly changed. In lieu of loving God in order to please
   God, they begin to love him for the pleasure they take in the exercises
   of holy love; and instead of falling in love with God they fall in love
   with the love they bear him, and stand affected to their own
   affections. They no longer take pleasure in God, but in the pleasure
   they find in his love. They content themselves with this love as being
   their own, in their spirit and proceeding from it; for though this
   sacred love be called the love of God because God is loved by it, yet
   it is also ours, because we are the lovers that love. And it is thus we
   make the change; for instead of loving this holy love because it tends
   to God who is the beloved, we love it because it proceeds from us who
   are the lovers. Now who does not see that in so doing we do not seek
   God, but turn home to ourselves, loving the love instead of loving the
   beloved? Loving, I say, the love, not by reason of God's good-pleasure
   and liking, but for the pleasure and content we draw from it. This
   chaunter who in the beginning sang to God and for God, now rather sings
   to himself and for himself than for God; and the pleasure he takes in
   singing is not so much to please God's ear as his own. And forasmuch as
   the canticle of Divine love is of all the most excellent, he also loves
   it better, not by reason of the Divine excellence which is exalted
   therein, but because its music is more delicious and agreeable.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [421] Ps. lvi. 8, 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   MEANS TO DISCOVER WHEN WE CHANGE IN THE MATTER OF THIS HOLY LOVE.

   You may easily discover this, Theotimus; for if this mystical
   nightingale sing to please God, she will sing the song which she knows
   to be most grateful to the Divine Providence, but if she sing for the
   delight which she herself takes in her melodious song, she will not
   sing the canticle which is most agreeable to the heavenly goodness, but
   that which she herself likes best, and from which she expects to draw
   the most contentment. Of two canticles which are both divine, it may
   well be that one may be sung because it is divine, and the other
   because it is pleasing. Rachel and Lia are equally wife of Jacob, but
   he loves one only in the quality of wife, the other in quality of
   beautiful. The canticle is divine, but the motive which moves us to
   sing it is the spiritual delectation which we expect from it.

   Do you not see, we may say to a bishop, that God wills you to sing the
   pastoral song of his love among your flock, which, in virtue of holy
   love, he thrice commands you (in the person of S. Peter, the first of
   pastors) to feed? What is your answer? That at Rome or Paris there are
   more spiritual pleasures, and that there one may practise Divine love
   with more sweetness. O God! it is not then to please thee that this man
   desires to sing, it is for the pleasure he takes in it; it is not thou
   he seeks in his love, but the contentment which he receives in the
   exercises of this holy love. Religious men would sing the pastors'
   song, and married people that of religious, in order, as they say, to
   be able to love and serve God better. Ah! you deceive yourselves my
   dear friends: do not say that it is to love and serve God better: Oh
   no, no, indeed! It is to serve your own satisfaction better, you prefer
   this before God's. God's will is as much in sickness as in health, and
   ordinarily almost more so; wherefore if we love health better, let us
   never say that this is in order to serve God the better, for who sees
   not that it is health that we look for in God's will, not God's will in
   health.

   It is hard, I confess, to behold long together and with delight the
   beauty of a mirror without casting an eye upon ourself, yea, without
   taking a complacency in ourself; yet there is a difference between the
   pleasure which we take in beholding the beauty of the mirror, and the
   complacency we take in seeing ourself in it. It is also without doubt
   very hard to love God and not withal love the pleasure which we take in
   his love, yet there is a notable difference between the pleasure which
   we take in loving God because he is beautiful, and that which we take
   in loving him because his love is agreeable to us. Now our task must be
   to seek in God only the love of his beauty, not the pleasure which is
   in the beauty of his love. He who in praying to God notices that he is
   praying, is not perfectly attentive to his prayer, for he diverts his
   attention from God to whom he prays, and turns it upon the prayer by
   which he prays. The very solicitude we have not to be distracted causes
   oftentimes a very great distraction; simplicity in spiritual actions is
   most to be commended. If you wish to contemplate God, contemplate him
   then, and that attentively: if you reflect and bring your eyes
   backwards upon yourself, to see how you look when you look upon him, it
   is not now he that you behold but your own behaviour--your self. He who
   prays fervently knows not whether he prays or not, for he is not
   thinking of the prayer which he makes but of God to whom he makes it.
   He that is in the heat of sacred love, does not turn his heart back
   upon himself to see what he is doing, but keeps it set and bent upon
   God to whom he applies his love. The heavenly chaunter takes such
   pleasure in pleasing God, that he has no pleasure in the melody of his
   voice, except in so far as God is pleased by it.

   Why, Theotimus, did Amnon the son of David love Thamar so desperately
   that he even thought he should die of love? Do you think that it was
   she herself that he loved? You soon see it was not. Look at this man
   who prays, apparently, with such great devotion, and is so ardent in
   the practice of heavenly love. But stay a little, and you will discover
   whether it be God indeed whom he loves. Alas! as soon as the delight
   and satisfaction which he took in love departs, and dryness comes, he
   will stop short, and only casually pray. If it had been God indeed whom
   he loved, why should he cease loving him, since God is ever God? It was
   therefore the consolations of God that he loved, not the God of
   consolation. In truth there are many who take no delight in divine love
   unless it be candied in the sugar of some sensible sweetness, and they
   would willingly act like children, who, if they have a little honey
   spread upon their bread, lick and suck off the honey, casting the bread
   away; for if the delight could be separated from the love, they would
   reject love and take the sweetness only. Wherefore as they follow love
   for the sake of its sweetness, when they find not this they make no
   account of love. But such persons are exposed to a great danger of
   either turning back as soon as they miss their relish and consolations,
   or else of occupying themselves in vain sweetnesses, far remote from
   true love, and of mistaking the honey of Heraclea for that of Narbonne.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   OF THE PERPLEXITY OF A HEART WHICH LOVES WITHOUT KNOWING WHETHER IT
   PLEASES THE BELOVED.

   The musician of whom I have spoken having become deaf, had no delight
   in his singing, save only that now and then he perceived his prince
   attentive to it and enjoying it. O how happy is the heart that loves
   God without pretence of any other pleasure than what it takes in
   pleasing God! For what more pure and perfect pleasure can a soul ever
   take than that which is taken in pleasing the Divinity? Yet this
   pleasure of pleasing God is not properly Divine love, but the fruit
   thereof; which may be separated from it as the lemon from the
   lemon-tree. For, as I have said, our musician always sang without
   reaping any contentment from his song, because his deafness made him
   incapable of it: and often also did he sing without having the pleasure
   of pleasing his prince, who, after he had given him order to begin,
   would withdraw, or go hunting, neither taking leisure nor pleasure to
   hear him.

   While, O God, I see thy sweet face, which testifies unto me that thou
   art pleased in the song of my love, ah! how am I comforted. For is
   there any pleasure comparable to the pleasure of truly pleasing our
   God? But when thou turnest thine eyes from me, and I no longer perceive
   the sweet savour of the complacency which thou takest in my song--good
   God! what pangs my soul endures! But it ceases not, for all that, to
   love thee faithfully, or continually to sing the hymn of its dilection,
   not for any delight it finds therein, for it finds none at all, but for
   the pure love of thy will.

   One may have seen a sick child bravely eat what his mother presents him
   (though with an incredible loathing) from the pure desire of giving her
   content. In this case he eats without taking any pleasure in his food,
   yet not without a pleasure of a higher order and value, which is the
   pleasure of pleasing his mother and of perceiving her content. But
   another who, without seeing his mother, from the mere knowledge he has
   of her desire, takes all that is sent him by her, eats without any
   pleasure at all. For he has neither the pleasure of eating, nor yet the
   contentment of seeing his mother pleased, but he eats purely and simply
   to do her will. The contentment of our prince present with us, or of
   any one whom we love tenderly, makes watchings, pains and labours
   delicious, and begets in us a love of peril: but nothing is so grievous
   as to serve a master who knows it not, or, if he know it, yet gives no
   sign that he is satisfied: love must be strong in such case, because it
   stands of itself, unsupported by any pleasure or any expectation.

   So it comes to pass sometimes that we have no consolation in the
   exercises of holy love, because, like deaf singers, we hear not our own
   voices, nor enjoy the sweetness of our song; but on the contrary,
   besides this privation, are oppressed with a thousand fears, and
   frightened with a thousand false alarms which the enemy raises round
   about our heart; suggesting that perhaps we are not in grace with our
   master, and that our love is fruitless, yea, that it is false and vain,
   since it brings forth no comfort. And then, Theotimus, we labour not
   only without pleasure but with an exceeding distress, being neither
   able to discover the profit of our labours, nor the contentment of him
   for whom we labour.

   But what in this case augments our trouble is that even the spirit and
   highest point of the reason cannot give any assuagement at all; for
   this poor superior portion of reason being beset round about with the
   suggestions of the enemy, is herself all troubled, and is fully engaged
   in keeping the guard, lest sin by surprise might get consent, so that
   she can make no sally to disengage the inferior part of her spirit, and
   although she has not lost heart, yet is she so desperately set at, that
   though she be free from fault yet is she not free from pain. Because,
   that her distress may be complete, she is deprived of the general
   consolation which ordinarily accompanies us through all the other
   calamities of this life, namely, the hope that they will not be of long
   continuance, but will have an end:--so that the heart in these
   spiritual distresses falls into a certain inability of thinking of
   their end, and consequently of being eased by hope. Faith indeed which
   resides in the supreme point of the spirit assures us that this trouble
   will have an end, and that one day we shall enjoy a true repose: but
   the loudness of the shouts and outcries which the enemy makes in the
   rest of the soul in the inferior reason, will scarcely permit the
   advice and remonstrances of faith to be heard; and there remains in the
   imagination only this sorrowful presage: Alas! joy I shall never have.

   O God! my dear Theotimus, now it is that we are to show an invincible
   courage towards our Saviour, serving him purely for the love of his
   will, not only without pleasure, but amid this deluge of sorrows,
   horrors, distresses and assaults, as did his glorious Mother and St.
   John upon the day of his Passion. Amongst so many blasphemies, sorrows
   and deadly distresses, they remained constant in love, yea, even in
   that instant in which our Saviour, having withdrawn all his holy joy
   into the very summit of his spirit, left no joy or consolation at all
   in his Divine countenance, and when his eyes, languishing and covered
   with the dark veil of death, did only cast looks of sorrow, as the sun
   also shot forth rays of horror and frightful darkness.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   HOW THE SOUL AMIDST THESE INTERIOR ANGUISHES KNOWS NOT THE LOVE SHE
   BEARS TO GOD: AND OF THE MOST LOVE-FULL DEATH OF THE WILL.

   The night before the great S. Peter was to suffer martyrdom, an angel
   came to the prison and filled it with splendour, awoke S. Peter, made
   him arise, made him gird himself, and put on his shoes and clothes,
   freed him from his bonds and shackles, drew him out of prison, and led
   him through the first and second guard, till he came to the iron gate
   which gave on the town; this of itself flew open before them, and
   having passed through one street, the angel left the glorious S. Peter
   there in full liberty. Behold a great variety of very corporeal
   actions, and yet S. Peter, who was awake from the beginning, did not
   apprehend that what was done by the angel was done in deed, but
   esteemed it a vision of the imagination. He was awake and yet did not
   think so, he put on his clothes and shoes not knowing that he had done
   it, he walked and yet thought he walked not, he was delivered and
   believed it not, and all this because the wonder of his deliverance was
   so great, and it engaged his heart in such sort, that though he had
   sense and knowledge enough to do what he did, yet had he not enough to
   discover that he did it really and in good earnest. He saw indeed the
   angel, but he did not discern that it was with a true and natural
   vision, wherefore he took no consolation in his delivery till such time
   as, coming to himself: Now, said he, I know in very deed that the Lord
   hath sent his Angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod,
   and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews. [422]

   Now, Theotimus, after the same manner it fares with a soul which is
   overcharged with interior anguishes; for although she has the power to
   believe, to trust, and to love her God, and in reality does so, yet she
   has not the strength to see properly whether she believes, hopes and
   loves, because her distress so engages her, and makes head against her
   so desperately, that she can get no time to return into her interior
   and see what is going on there. And hence she thinks that she has no
   faith, nor hope, nor charity, but only the shadows and fruitless
   impressions of those virtues, which she feels in a manner without
   feeling them, and as if foreign, instead of natural, to her soul. And,
   if you notice, you will find our souls always in this state when they
   are strongly occupied by some violent passion, for they perform many
   actions as though they were in a dream, with so little sense of what
   they do that they can scarcely believe the things actually happen.
   Hence the sacred Psalmist expresses the greatness of the consolation of
   the Israelites on their return from the captivity of Babylon in these
   words: When the Lord brought back the captivity of Sion, we became like
   men comforted. [423] And as the holy Latin version, following the
   Septuagint, has it: facti semis "sicut" consolati: that is our wonder
   at the greatness of the good which came to us was so excessive, that it
   hindered us from properly feeling the consolation which we received,
   and it seemed to us that we were not truly comforted, nor had
   consolation in real truth, but only in a figure and a dream.

   Such then are the feelings of the soul which is in the midst of
   spiritual anguishes. These do exceedingly purify and refine love, for
   being deprived of all pleasure by which its love might be attached to
   God, it joins and unites us to God immediately, will to will, heart to
   heart, without any intervention of satisfaction or desire. Alas!
   Theotimus, how the poor heart is afflicted when being as it were
   abandoned by love, she seeks everywhere, and yet seems not to find it.
   She finds it not in the exterior senses, they not being capable of it;
   nor in the imagination, which is cruelly tortured by conflicting
   impressions; nor in the understanding, distracted with a thousand
   obscurities of strange reasonings and fears; and though at length she
   finds it in the top and supreme region of the spirit where it resides,
   yet the soul does not recognize it, and thinks it is not love, because
   the greatness of the distress and darkness hinders her from perceiving
   its sweetness. She sees it without seeing it, meets it but does not
   know it, as though all passed in a dream only, or in a type. In this
   way Magdalen, having met with her dear Master, received no comfort from
   him, because she thought that it was not he indeed, but the gardener
   only.

   But what is the soul to do that finds herself in this case? Theotimus,
   she knows not how to behave herself amidst so much anguish; nor has she
   any power save to let her will die in the hands of God's will;
   imitating her sweet Jesus, who being arrived at the height of the pains
   of the cross which his Father had ordained, and not being able any
   further to resist the extremity of his torments, did as the hart does,
   which when it is run out of breath, and oppressed by the hounds,
   yielding itself up into the huntsman's hands, its eyes filled with
   tears, utters its last cries. For so this Divine Saviour, near unto his
   death, and giving up his last breath with a loud voice and abundance of
   tears--Alas! said he, O Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit:--a
   word, Theotimus, which was his very last, and the one by which the
   well-beloved Son gave the sovereign testimony of his love towards his
   Father. When therefore all fails us, when our troubles have come to
   their extremity, this word, this disposition, this rendering up of our
   soul into our Saviour's hands, can never fail us. The Son commended his
   spirit to his Father in this his last and incomparable anguish, and we,
   when the convulsions of spiritual pains shall bereave us of all other
   sort of solace and means of resistance, let us commend our spirit into
   the hands of this eternal Son who is our true Father, and bowing the
   head of our acquiescence in his good pleasure, let us make over our
   whole will unto him.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [422] Acts xii. 11.

   [423] Ps. cxxv. 1.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   HOW THE WILL BEING DEAD TO ITSELF LIVES ENTIRELY IN GOD'S WILL.

   We speak with a singular propriety of a man's death in our French
   tongue, for we call it an overpassing (trespas) and the dead the
   overpassers, intimating that death amongst men is but a passing over
   from one life to another, and that to die is no other thing but to
   overpass the confines of this mortal life, to enter the immortal. True
   it is, our will can no more die than our soul, yet does it sometimes go
   out of the limits of its ordinary life, to live wholly in the Divine
   will. This is when it neither wills nor cares to desire any thing at
   all, but gives itself over totally and without reserve to the good
   pleasure of the Divine Providence, so mingling and saturating itself
   with this good pleasure, that itself is seen no more, but is all hidden
   with Jesus Christ in God, where it lives, not it, but the will of God
   lives in it.

   What becomes of the light of the stars when the sun appears on our
   horizon? Certainly it perishes not, but it is ravished into and
   absorbed in the sun's sovereign light, with which it is happily mingled
   and allied; and what becomes of man's will when it is entirely
   delivered up to God's pleasure? It does not altogether perish, yet is
   it so lost and dispersed in the will of God that it appears not, and
   has no other will than the will of God. Consider, Theotimus, the
   glorious and never sufficiently praised S. Louis, embarking and setting
   sail for beyond seas: and see the queen, his dear wife, embarking with
   his majesty. Now if any one had asked of this brave princess: Madam,
   whither are you going? She would without doubt have replied, I go
   whither the king goes.--And if further asked: But do you know, Madam,
   whither the king goes? She would also have made answer: He told me in
   general; however, I care not for knowing, I only desire to accompany
   him.--And if one had replied: Why then, Madam, you have no design in
   this journey? No, would she have said, I have none, except to be with
   my dear sovereign and husband.--Well then, it might have been said to
   her, he goes into Egypt to pass into Palestine; he will stay at
   Damietta, Acre, and many places besides,--do not you intend, Madam, to
   go thither also? To this she would have made answer: No, in truth, I
   have no intention save only to keep myself near my king; as for the
   places whither he goes, they are all indifferent to me, and of no
   consideration whatever, except so far as he will be in them; for I have
   no affection for anything but the king's presence: it is therefore the
   king that goes, it is he that designs the journey, but, as for me, I do
   not go, I only follow: I desire not the journey, but solely the
   presence of the king; the staying, the journeying, and all their
   circumstances being utterly indifferent to me.

   Surely if we ask some servant who is in his master's train whither he
   is going, he ought not to answer that he is going to such a place, but
   simply that he follows his master, for he goes nowhere of his own
   accord, but at his master's pleasure only. In like manner, Theotimus, a
   will perfectly resigned to God's should have no will of its own, but
   simply follow that of God. And as he who is on ship does not move by
   his own motion, but leaves himself to be moved by the motion of the
   vessel in which he is, so the heart that is embarked in the Divine
   pleasure, ought to have no other will than that of permitting itself to
   be conducted by the Divine will. And then the heart does not as before
   say: Thy will be done, not mine:--for there is now no will to be
   renounced; but it utters these words: Lord I commend my will into thy
   hands,--even as though it had not its will at its own disposition, but
   at the disposition of the Divine Providence. So that it is not exactly
   as with servants who follow their masters, for, in their case, although
   the journey be undertaken at their master's pleasure, yet their
   following comes from their own particular will, though a will following
   and serving, submitted and subjected to, that of their master: so that
   as the master and servant are two, the will of the master and the will
   of the servant are also two. But the will which is dead to herself that
   she may live in that of God, is without any particular will, remaining
   not only in conformity and subjection, but quite annihilated in
   herself, and cemented into God's, as one might speak of a little child
   who has not yet got the use of his will to love or desire anything save
   the bosom and face of his dear mother. For he does not think of willing
   to be on one side or on the other, or of anything else, except only to
   be in the arms of his mother, with whom he thinks himself to be one
   thing. He never troubles himself as to how he shall conform his will to
   his mother's, for he perceives not his own, nor does he think he has
   any, leaving all the care to his mother, to go, to do, and to will,
   what she judges profitable for him.

   It is truly the highest perfection of our will to be thus united to
   that of our sovereign good, as was that saint's who said: O Lord, thou
   hast conducted and led me at thy will. [424] For what did he mean but
   that he had made no use of his will to conduct himself, letting himself
   simply be led and guided by that of God.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [424] Ps. lxxii. 24.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   AN EXPLANATION OF WHAT HAS BEEN SAID TOUCHING THE DECEASE OF OUR WILL.

   We may well believe that the most sacred Virgin Our Lady received so
   much pleasure in carrying her little Jesus in her arms, that delight
   beguiled weariness, or at least made it agreeable; for if a branch of
   agnus castus can solace and unweary travellers, what solace did not the
   glorious Mother receive in carrying the immaculate Lamb of God? And
   though she permitted him now and then to run on foot by her, she
   holding him by the hand, yet this was not because she would not rather
   have had him hanging about her neck and on her breast, but it was to
   teach him to form his steps and walk alone. And we ourselves,
   Theotimus, as little children of the heavenly Father, may walk with him
   in two ways. For we may, in the first place, walk with the steps of our
   own will which we conform to his, holding always with the hand of our
   obedience the hand of his divine intention, and following it
   wheresoever it leads,--which is what God requires from us by the
   signification of his will; for since he wills me to do what he ordains,
   he wills me to have the will to do it: God has signified that he wills
   me to keep holy the day of rest; since he wills me to do it, he wills
   then that I will to do it, and that for this end I should have a will
   of my own, by which I follow his, conforming myself and corresponding
   to his. But we may on other occasions walk with our Saviour without any
   will of our own, letting ourselves simply be carried at his divine good
   pleasure, as a little child in its mother's arms, by a certain kind of
   consent which may be termed union or rather unity of our heart with
   God's;--and this is the way that we are to endeavour to comport
   ourselves in God's will of good-pleasure, since the effects of this
   will of good-pleasure proceed purely from his Providence, and we do not
   effect them, but they happen to us. True it is we may will them to come
   according to God's will, and this willing is excellent; yet we may also
   receive the events of heaven's good pleasure by a most simple
   tranquillity of our will, which, willing nothing whatever, simply
   acquiesces in all that God would have done in us, on us, or by us.

   If one had asked the sweet Jesus when he was carried in his mother's
   arms, whither he was going, might he not with good reason have
   answered: I go not, 'tis my mother that goes for me: And if one had
   said to him: But at least do you not go with your mother? might he not
   reasonably have replied: No, I do not go, or if I go whither my mother
   carries me, I do not myself walk with her nor by my own steps, but by
   my mother's, by her, and in her: But if one had persisted with him,
   saying: But at least, O most dear divine child, you really will to let
   yourself be carried by your sweet mother? No verily, might he have
   said, I will nothing of all this, but as my entirely good mother walks
   for me so she wills for me; I leave her the care as well to go as to
   will to go for me where she likes best; and as I go not but by her
   steps, so I will not but by her will; and from the instant I find
   myself in her arms, I give no attention either to willing or not
   willing, turning all other cares over to my mother, save only the care
   to be on her bosom, to suck her sacred breast, and to keep myself close
   clasped to her most beloved neck, that I may most lovingly kiss her
   with the kisses of my mouth. And be it known to you that while I am
   amidst the delights of these holy caresses which surpass all sweetness,
   I consider that my mother is a tree of life, and myself on her as its
   fruit; that I am her own heart in her breast, or her soul in the midst
   of her heart, so that as her going serves both her and me without my
   troubling myself to take a single step, so her will serves us both
   without my producing any act of my will about going or coming. Nor do I
   ever take notice whether she goes fast or slow, hither or thither, nor
   do I inquire whither she means to go, contenting myself with this, that
   go whither she please I go still locked in her arms, close laid at her
   beloved breasts, where I feed as amongst lilies. O divine child of
   Mary! Permit my poor soul these outbursts of love: Go then so, O most
   amiable dear little babe, or rather go not but stay, thus holily
   fastened to your sweet mother's breast; go always in her and never
   without her, while thou remainest a child! O how blessed is the womb
   that bore thee, and the breasts that gave thee suck! [425] The Saviour
   of our souls had the use of reason from the instant of his conception
   in his Mother's womb, and could make all this discourse; so could even
   the glorious S. John his forerunner, from the day of the holy
   visitation, and though both of them, as well in that time as all
   through their infancy, were possessed of liberty to will or not to
   will, yet, in what concerned their external conduct, they left to their
   mothers the care of doing and willing for them what was requisite.

   Thus should we be, Theotimus, pliable and tractable to God's
   good-pleasure, as though we were of wax, not giving our thoughts leave
   to wander in wishing and willing things, but leaving God to will and do
   them for us as he pleases, throwing upon him all our solicitude,
   because he hath care of us, [426] as the holy Apostle says: and note
   that he says all our solicitude, that is, as well that which concerns
   the events, as that which pertains to willing or not willing, for he
   will have a care of the issue of our affairs, and of willing that which
   is best for us.

   Meanwhile let us affectionately give our attention to blessing God in
   all his works, after the example of Job, saying: The Lord gave and the
   Lord hath taken away, the name of the Lord be blessed! [427] No, Lord;
   I will no events, for I leave you to will them for me at your pleasure,
   but instead of willing the events I will bless you because you have
   willed them. O Theotimus! what an excellent employment of our will is
   this, when it gives up the care of willing and choosing the effects of
   God's good-pleasure in order to praise and thank this good pleasure for
   such effects.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [425] Luke xi. 27.

   [426] 1 Pet. v. 7.

   [427] Job i. 21.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XV.

   OF THE MOST EXCELLENT EXERCISE WE CAN MAKE IN THE INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR
   TROUBLES OF THIS LIFE, AFTER ATTAINING THE INDIFFERENCE AND DEATH OF
   THE WILL.

   To bless and thank God in all the events that his providence ordains,
   is in very deed a most holy exercise, yet if, while we leave the care
   to God of willing and doing in us, on us, and with us, what pleases
   him, without attending to what passes--though fully feeling it--we
   could divert our heart, and apply our attention to the divine goodness
   and sweetness--blessing it not in the effects or events it ordains, but
   in itself and in its own excellence--we should certainly practise a far
   more eminent exercise. In the time that Demetrius was laying siege to
   Rhodes, Protogenes, who was in a little house in the suburbs, ceased
   not to work, and that with such assurance and repose of mind that
   though the enemies' sword was in a manner always at his throat, yet he
   executed the grand masterpiece and admirable representation of a Satyr
   amusing himself with playing upon a pipe. O God! how great are those
   souls who in all kinds of accidents keep their affections and attention
   ever upon the eternal goodness, honouring and loving it at all times.

   The daughter of an excellent physician and surgeon, being in a
   continual fever, and knowing that her father loved her entirely, said
   to one of her friends: I feel very great pain, but I do not think of
   remedies, for I do not know what might serve for my cure; I might
   desire one thing, and another be necessary for me. Do I not then gain
   more by leaving this care to my father, who knows, who can do, and who
   wills for me, all that is required for my health? I should do wrong by
   willing anything, for he wills all that could be profitable to me. I
   will only wait to let him will to do what is expedient, and when he
   comes to me I will only look at him, testify my filial love for him,
   and show my perfect confidence. And on these words she fell asleep.
   Meanwhile her father, judging that it was fit to bleed her, disposed
   all that was necessary, and waking her up asked her if she were willing
   to suffer the operation. My father, she said, I am yours; I know not
   what to will for my cure; it is yours to will and do for me what seems
   good to you; it is enough for me to love and honour you with all my
   heart, as I do. So her arm is tied, and her father himself opens the
   vein. And while the blood flows, this loving daughter looks not at her
   arm nor at the spurting blood, but keeping her eyes fixed on her
   father's face, she says only, from time to time: My father loves me,
   and I, I am entirely his. And when all was done she did not thank him,
   but only repeated her words of filial confidence and love.

   Now tell me, my friend Theotimus, did not this daughter show a more
   attentive and solid love for her father, than if she had taken great
   care to ask remedies for her malady, to watch the vein being opened,
   and the blood coming, and to say many words of thanks? There is no
   doubt whatever about it. What could she have gained save useless
   solicitude by thinking for herself, since her father had care enough of
   her; what but fear by looking at her arm; and what virtue but gratitude
   would she have shown in thanking her father? Did she not do best then
   in occupying herself entirely in the demonstration of her filial love,
   infinitely more agreeable to her father than every other virtue?

   My eyes are ever towards the Lord; for he shall pluck my feet out of
   the snare and the nets. [428] Have you fallen into the net of
   adversity? Ah! look not upon your mishap, nor upon the snare in which
   you are taken: look upon God and leave all to him, he will have care of
   you: Cast thy care upon the Lord and he shall sustain thee. [429] Why
   do you trouble yourself with willing or not willing the events and
   accidents of this world, since you are ignorant what were best for you
   to will, and since God will always will for you, without your putting
   yourself in trouble, all you could will for yourself? Await therefore
   in peace of mind the effects of the divine pleasure, and let his
   willing suffice you, since it is always most good: for so he gave order
   to his well-beloved S. Catharine of Siena: Think in me, said he to her,
   and I will think for you.

   It is very difficult to express exactly this extreme indifference of
   the human will, thus absorbed and dead in the will of God. For,
   meseems, we must not say it acquiesces in that of God, because
   acquiescence is an act of the soul which declares its consent. We must
   not say it accepts or receives, because accepting and receiving are a
   sort of actions, which we might call in a certain sense passive
   actions, by which we embrace and take what happens: we must not say
   that it permits, as even permission is an act of the will, and hence is
   a certain inactive willing, which does not do and yet lets be done. It
   seems to me the soul which is in this indifference, and which wills
   nothing, but lets God will what pleases him, should be said to have its
   will in a simple and general state of waiting (attente): since waiting
   is not a doing or acting, but only the remaining prepared for some
   event. And, if you take notice, this waiting of the soul is indeed
   voluntary, and yet it is not an action, but a simple disposition to
   receive whatsoever shall happen; and as soon as the events come and are
   received, the waiting changes into consent or acquiescence, but, before
   they happen, the soul is truly in a state of simple waiting,
   indifferent to all that it shall please the divine will to ordain.

   Our Saviour thus expresses the extreme submission of his human will to
   the will of his Eternal Father. The Lord God, he says, hath opened my
   ear, that is, he hath declared unto me his pleasure touching the
   multitude of the pains which I am to endure, and I, says he afterwards,
   do not resist: I have not gone back. [430] What does this mean: I do
   not resist: I have not gone back, except this? My will is in a simply
   waiting state, and is ready for all that God shall send; wherefore I
   have given my body to the strikers, and my cheeks to them that plucked
   them: I have not turned away my face from them that rebuked me and spit
   upon me; being prepared to let them exercise their pleasure upon me.
   But mark, I pray you, Theotimus, that even as our Saviour, after he had
   made his prayer of resignation in the garden of Olives, and after he
   was taken, left himself to be handled and dragged about at the will of
   them that crucified him, by an admirable surrender made of his body and
   life into their hands, so did he resign up his soul and will by a most
   perfect indifference into his Eternal Father's hands. For though he
   cries out: My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me?--yet this was to
   let us understand the reality of the anguish and bitternesses of his
   soul, and not to detract from the most holy indifference in which it
   was; as he showed very soon afterwards, concluding all his life and his
   passion with those incomparable words: Father, into Thy hands I commend
   my spirit.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [428] Ps. xxiv. 15.

   [429] Ps. liv. 23.

   [430] Is. l. 5, 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVI.

   OF THE PERFECT STRIPPING OF THE SOUL WHICH IS UNITED TO GOD'S WILL.

   Let us represent to ourselves, Theotimus, the sweet Jesus in Pilate's
   house, where for love of us he was divested of all his garments one
   after the other, by the soldiers, the ministers of death. And not
   content with that, they took his skin from him, tearing it with the
   blows of rods and whips; then afterwards his soul was bereft of his
   body, and his body of life, by the death which he endured upon the
   cross. But three days being run out, his soul, by the most holy
   Resurrection, put on again its glorious body, and his body its immortal
   skin, wearing sundry garments, now those of a gardener, now of a
   pilgrim, or other guise according as the salvation of man and the glory
   of God required. Love did all this, Theotimus, and it is love also
   which, entering into a soul to make it happily die to itself and live
   to God, bereaves it of all human desires, and of self-esteem which is
   as closely fixed to the spirit as the skin to the flesh, and strips her
   at length of her best beloved affections, such as those which she had
   to spiritual consolations, exercises of piety and the perfection of
   virtues, which seemed to be the very life of the soul.

   Then, Theotimus, the soul may by good right cry out: I have put off my
   garment, how shall I find in my heart to put it on? I have washed my
   feet, from all sorts of affections, how shall I defile them? [431]
   Naked came I out of the hand of God, and naked shall I return thither:
   God gave me many desires and God hath taken them away: As it hath
   pleased the Lord, so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord. [432]
   Yes, Theotimus, the same God who made us desire virtues in our
   beginning, and who makes us practise them on all occurrences, he it is
   that takes from us the affection to virtues and all spiritual
   exercises, that with more tranquillity, purity and simplicity, we
   should care for nothing but the divine Majesty's good pleasure. For as
   the fair and chaste Judith reserved indeed her costly festal robes in
   her cabinet, and yet placed not her affection upon them, nor yet ever
   wore them in the time of her widowhood, save only when by God's
   inspiration she went to overthrow Holofernes, so, though we have learnt
   the practice of virtue and the exercises of devotion, yet are we not to
   give our affection to them nor clothe our heart again with them, save
   only as far as we know that such is the good pleasure of God. Judith
   always wore mourning weeds except only on this occasion when God's will
   was that she should be in pomp; so are we peaceably to remain vested
   with our misery and abjection amidst our imperfections and infirmities,
   till God shall exalt us to the practice of excellent actions.

   We cannot long remain in this nakedness, despoiled of all sorts of
   affections. Wherefore, following the advice of the holy Apostle, as
   soon as we have put off the garments of the old Adam, we are to put on
   the habits of the new man, that is to say of Jesus Christ, for having
   renounced all,--yes, even the affection to virtues, neither desiring of
   these nor of other things a larger portion than God's will intends,--we
   must put on again divers affections, and perhaps the very same which we
   have renounced and resigned: but we must now put them on again not
   because they are agreeable, profitable, honourable to us, and proper to
   content the love we have for ourselves, but because they are agreeable
   to God, profitable to his honour, and destined to his glory.

   Eliezer carried ear jewels, bracelets and new attire for the maid whom
   God had provided for his master's son, and in effect he presented them
   to the virgin Rebecca, as soon as he knew it was she. New garments are
   required for our Saviour's spouse. If for the love of God she has
   stript herself of the ancient affection which she had to parents,
   country, home, friends, she must take quite new affections, loving all
   this in its order, not now according to human considerations, but
   because the heavenly spouse wills, commands, and intends it so, and has
   established this order in charity. If we have once put off our old
   affection to spiritual consolations, to exercises of devotion, to the
   practice of virtues, yea to our own advancement in perfection, we must
   put on another affection quite new, by loving all these graces and
   heavenly favours, not because they perfect and adorn our spirit, but
   because our Saviour's name is sanctified in them, his kingdom advanced,
   his good-pleasure glorified.

   So did S. Peter vest himself in the prison, not at his own choice but
   at the angel's command. He puts on his girdle, then his sandals, and
   afterwards the rest of his garments. And the glorious S. Paul, stripped
   in a moment of all affections: Lord, said he, what wilt thou have me
   do? that is, what is it thy pleasure for me to love, now that throwing
   me to the ground thou hast made my own will to die? Ah! Lord, plant thy
   good-pleasure in the place of it, and, teach me to do thy will, for
   thou art my God. [433] Theotimus, he who has forsaken all for God ought
   to resume nothing but according to God's good-pleasure. He feeds not
   his body but according to God's ordinance that it may be serviceable to
   the spirit; he only engages in studies in order to assist his neighbour
   and his own soul, according to the divine intention; he practises
   virtues not as being his own choice, but according to God's desire.

   God commanded the prophet Isaias to strip himself naked; and he did so,
   [434] going and preaching in this way, for three days together as some
   hold, or for three years as others think, and then, the time prefixed
   by God having expired, he resumed his clothes. Even so are we to strip
   ourselves of all affections little and great, as also to make a
   frequent examination of our hearts to discover whether it be willing to
   divest itself, as Isaias did, of all its garments: then we must take up
   again, at proper times, the affections suitable to the service of
   charity, to the end that we may die with Our Saviour naked upon the
   cross, and rise again with him in newness of life. Love is strong as
   death [435] to make us quit all, it is magnificent as the Resurrection,
   to adorn us with honour and glory.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [431] Cant. v. 3.

   [432] Job i. 21.

   [433] Ps. cxlii. 10

   [434] Is. xx. 2.

   [435] Cant. viii. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK X.

   OF THE

COMMANDMENT OF LOVING GOD ABOVE ALL THINGS.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   OF THE SWEETNESS OF THE COMMANDMENT WHICH GOD HAS GIVEN US OF LOVING
   HIM ABOVE ALL THINGS.

   Man is the perfection of the universe; the spirit is the perfection of
   man; love, that of the spirit; and charity, that of love. Wherefore the
   love of God is the end, the perfection and the excellence of the
   universe. In this, Theotimus, consists the greatness and the primacy of
   the commandment of divine love, which the Saviour calls the first and
   greatest commandment. This commandment is as a sun which gives lustre
   and dignity to all the sacred laws, to all the divine ordinances, and
   to all the Holy Scriptures. All is done for this heavenly love, and all
   has reference to it. From the sacred tree of this commandment grow all
   the counsels, exhortations, inspirations, and the other commandments,
   as its flowers, and eternal life as its fruit; and all that does not
   tend to eternal love tends to eternal death. Grand Commandment, the
   perfect fulfilment of which lasts through eternal life, yea, is no
   other thing but eternal life!

   But look, Theotimus, how amiable is this law of love. Ah! Lord God, was
   it not enough for thee to permit us this divine love, as Laban
   permitted Jacob that of Rachel, without the necessity of inviting us to
   it by exhortations, or driving us to it by commandments? But no, divine
   goodness, in order that neither thy greatness, nor our vileness, nor
   any pretext whatever should keep us from loving thee, thou dost command
   it to us. The poor Apelles, not able to keep from loving the beautiful
   Campaspe, yet dared not love her because she belonged to the great
   Alexander; but when he had leave to love her, how greatly obliged did
   he consider himself to him who gave this leave to him! He knew not
   whether he should more love that beautiful Campaspe whom so great an
   emperor had given up to him, or that great emperor who had given him so
   beautiful a Campaspe. Oh! if we were able to comprehend it, my dear
   Theotimus, what obligation should we have to this sovereign good, who
   not only permits but even commands us to love him! Ah! my God, I know
   not whether I ought more to love thine infinite beauty which so great a
   goodness orders me to love, or thy divine goodness which orders me to
   love so infinite a beauty! O beauty, how amiable thou art, being
   bestowed upon me by a goodness so immense! O goodness, how amiable thou
   art, in communicating unto me so eminent a beauty!

   God at the Day of Judgment will imprint in the souls of the damned the
   knowledge of their loss, in a wondrous manner: for the divine majesty
   will make them clearly see the sovereign beauty of his face, and the
   treasures of his goodness; and at the sight of this abyss of infinite
   delights, the will with an extreme effort will desire to cast itself
   upon him, to be united unto him and enjoy his love. But all in vain,
   for it shall be as a woman, who in the pangs of childbirth, after
   having endured violent pains, cruel convulsions, and intolerable pangs,
   dies in the end without being delivered. For as soon as the clear and
   fair knowledge of the divine beauty shall have penetrated the
   understandings of those unhappy spirits, the divine justice shall in
   such sort deprive the will of its strength that it will be in no wise
   able to love this object which the understanding purposes to it, and
   represents to be so amiable; and the sight which should beget in the
   will so great a love, instead thereof shall engender an infinite
   sadness. This shall be made eternal by the memory of the sovereign
   beauty they saw, which shall for ever live in these lost souls; a
   memory void of all good, yea full of trouble, pains, torments and
   undying despair, because at the same time there shall be found in the
   will an impossibility of loving, yea a frightful and everlasting
   aversion and repugnance to loving this excellence so desirable. Thus
   the miserable damned shall live for ever in despairing rage--to know so
   sovereignly amiable a perfection, without being able ever to have the
   enjoyment or the love of it, because while they might have loved it
   they would not: they shall burn with a thirst so much the more violent
   as the remembrance of this fountain of waters of eternal life shall
   more inflame their ardour: they shall die immortally, as dogs, [436] of
   a famine as much more vehement, as their memory shall more sharpen its
   insatiable cruelty by the remembrance of the banquet of which they are
   deprived. The wicked shall see, and shall be angry, he shall gnash with
   his teeth and pine away: the desire of the wicked shall perish. [437] I
   would not indeed affirm for certain, that the view of God's beauty
   which the damned shall have, like a flash of lightning, will be as
   bright as that of the Blessed; but still it will be clear enough to let
   them see the Son of man in his majesty. [438] They shall look on him
   whom they pierced; [439] and by the view of this glory shall learn the
   greatness of their loss. Ah! if God had forbidden man to love him, what
   a torment would that have been to generous hearts! What efforts would
   they not make to obtain permission to love him? David braved the hazard
   of a most severe combat to gain the King's daughter,--and what did not
   Jacob do to espouse Rachel, and the Prince of Sichem to have Dina in
   marriage? The damned would repute themselves blessed if they could
   entertain a hope of ever loving God: and the Blessed would esteem
   themselves damned, if they thought they could ever be deprived of this
   sacred love.

   O good God! Theotimus, how delicious is the sweetness of this
   commandment, seeing that if it pleased the divine will to give it to
   the damned, they would in a moment be delivered from their greatest
   misery, and seeing that the Blessed are only blessed by the practice of
   it! O heavenly love, how lovely art thou to our souls! And blessed be
   the goodness of God for ever, who so earnestly commands us to love him,
   though this love is so desirable and so necessary to our happiness that
   without it we can but be miserable!

     __________________________________________________________________

   [436] Ps. lviii.7.

   [437] Ps. cxi. 10.

   [438] Matt. xxiv. 30.

   [439] John xix. 37.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   THAT THIS DIVINE COMMANDMENT OF LOVE TENDS TO HEAVEN, YET IS GIVEN TO
   THE FAITHFUL IN THIS WORLD.

   If the law is not made for the just man, [440] because, preventing the
   law and without the pressure of the law, he performs God's will by the
   instinct of charity which reigns in his soul; how free and exempt from
   all commandments must we consider the Blessed in Paradise to be, since
   from their enjoyment of the sovereign beauty and goodness of the
   well-beloved, a most sweet yet inevitable necessity in their spirits of
   loving eternally the most holy divinity, flows and proceeds. We shall
   love God in heaven, Theotimus, not as being tied and obliged by the
   law, but as being allured and ravished by the joy which this object, so
   perfectly worthy of love, shall yield to our hearts. Then the force of
   the commandment will cease, in order to give place to the force of
   contentment, which shall be the fruit and crown of the observance of
   the commandment. We are therefore destined to the contentment which is
   promised us in the immortal life, by this commandment which is given
   unto us in this mortal life, in which truly we are strictly bound to
   observe it, because it is the fundamental law which the King Jesus has
   given to the citizens of the militant Jerusalem, to make them merit the
   citizenship and joy of the triumphant Jerusalem.

   There above in heaven we shall indeed have a heart quite free from
   passions, a soul purified from all distractions, a spirit liberated
   from contradictions, and powers exempt from opposition, and therefore
   we shall love God with a perpetual and never interrupted affection, as
   it is said of those four living creatures, which, representing the
   Evangelists, continually praised the divinity, not resting day or
   night. [441] O God! what joy, when, established in those eternal
   tabernacles, our spirits shall be in this perpetual movement, in which
   they shall enjoy the so much desired repose of their eternal loving.
   Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, O Lord: they shall praise
   thee for ever and ever. [442]

   But we are not to expect this love so exceedingly perfect in this
   mortal life: for as yet we have neither the heart, nor the soul, nor
   the spirit, nor the forces of the Blessed. It is sufficient for us to
   love with all the heart and all the powers we have. While we are little
   children, we are wise like little children, we speak like little
   children, we love like little children, but when we shall come to our
   perfect growth, there above in heaven, we shall be freed from our state
   of infancy, and love God perfectly. Yet are we not for all this,
   Theotimus, during this infancy of our mortal life, to omit to do what
   in us lies according as we are commanded, since this is not only in our
   power, but is also very easy; the whole commandment being of love, and
   of the love of God, who as he is sovereignly good, so is he sovereignly
   amiable.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [440] 1 Tim. i. 9.

   [441] Apoc. iv.

   [442] Ps. lxxxiii. 5.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   HOW, WHILE THE WHOLE HEART IS EMPLOYED IN SACRED LOVE, YET ONE MAY LOVE
   GOD IN VARIOUS WAYS, AND ALSO MANY OTHER THINGS TOGETHER WITH HIM.

   He who says all, excludes nothing, and yet a man may be wholly God's,
   wholly his father's, wholly his mother's, wholly his prince's, wholly
   his commonwealth's, his children's, his friends' so that being all to
   each, yet he is all to all. This so happens because the duty by which a
   man is all to one, is not contrary to the duty by which a man is all to
   another.

   Man gives himself wholly by love, and gives himself as much as he
   loves. He is therefore in a sovereign manner given to God when he loves
   the divine goodness sovereignly. And having once made this donation of
   himself, he is to love nothing that can remove his heart from God. Now
   never does any love take our hearts from God, save that which is
   contrary unto him.

   Sara is not offended when she sees Ismael about her dear Isaac, so long
   as his play does not go on to striking and hurting the boy: and the
   divine goodness is not offended by seeing in us other loves besides
   his, so long as we preserve for him the reverence and submission due to
   him.

   In heaven, Theotimus, God will truly give himself to us wholly, and not
   in part, since he is a whole that has no parts, yet will he give
   himself in different ways, and in as many different ways as there are
   blessed souls. This will so happen because, while giving himself all to
   all and all to each, he will never give himself wholly either to one in
   particular or to all in general. Now we shall give ourselves to him,
   according to the measure in which he gives himself to us: for we shall
   see him indeed face to face, as he is in his beauty; and shall love him
   heart to heart, as he is in his goodness: yet all will not see him with
   an equal clearness, nor love him with an equal sweetness: but every one
   will see and love him, according to the particular measure of glory
   which the divine Providence has prepared for him. We shall all equally
   have the fulness of divine love, but still the fulnesses will be
   unequal in perfection. The honey of Narbonne is sweet, and so also is
   that of Paris: both of them are full of sweetness, but the one of a
   better, more delicate and richer sweetness: and though both of them are
   entirely sweet, yet neither contains all sweetness. I do homage to my
   sovereign prince, as also to my immediate superior: I engage then to
   each of them all my fealty, and I do not engage it to either of them
   totally: for in that which I give to the sovereign, I do not exclude
   that which I pay to the subaltern, and in that of the subaltern, I do
   not include that of the sovereign. Wherefore it is no wonder that, if
   in heaven (where these words, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all
   thy heart, shall be so excellently practised) there are great
   differences in love, in this mortal life there should be many.

   Theotimus, among those who love God with all their heart not only do
   some love him more and some less, but even one and the same person
   often exceeds himself in this sovereign exercise of loving God above
   all things. Apelles did better one time than another, sometimes he
   surpassed himself; for though commonly he gave all his art and all his
   attention to painting Alexander the Great, yet he did not always give
   them so totally and entirely but that there remained other efforts to
   make, in which he used not a greater art or a greater affection but
   used them more actively and perfectly. He always employed all his
   genius to paint these pictures of Alexander well, because he used it
   without reserve, yet sometimes he employed it more effectively and
   happily. Who knows not that in this holy love progress is possible, and
   that the end of the Saints is crowned with a more perfect love than
   their beginning?

   Now according to the expression of the holy Scriptures, to do a thing
   with all one's heart means simply to do it with good heart and without
   reserve. O Lord, says David, I have sought thee with my whole heart. I
   have cried with all my heart, O Lord, hear me, [443] and the holy Word
   testifies that he had truly followed God with his whole heart; and yet,
   notwithstanding this, it affirms also of Ezechias, that after him there
   was none like him among all the kings of Judah, [444] neither before
   nor after him, that he was united to God and strayed not from him.
   Afterwards treating of Josias it says that there was no king before him
   like unto him that returned to the Lord with all his heart, and with
   all his soul, and with all his strength, according to all the law of
   Moses, neither after him did there arise any like him. [445] Mark then,
   I pray you, Theotimus, mark how David, Ezechias and Josias, loved God
   with all their hearts, and yet not all three equally, because no one of
   them had his like in this love, as the sacred text says. All three
   loved him, each of them with all his heart; yet, not one nor all
   together loved him totally, but each one in his particular way; so that
   as all the three were alike in this, that they gave each his whole
   heart, so were they unlike in their manner of giving it; yea, there is
   no doubt that David, to take him by himself, was far different from
   himself in this love; and that with his second heart which God created
   pure and clean in him, and with his right spirit which God renewed in
   his bowels by most holy penitence, he sang the canticle of his love far
   more melodiously than ever he had done with his first heart and his
   first spirit.

   All true lovers are equal in this, that all give all their heart to
   God, and with all their strength, but they are unequal in this, that
   they give it diversely and in different manners, whence some give all
   their heart, with all their strength, less perfectly than others. This
   one gives it all by martyrdom, this, all by virginity, this, all by
   poverty, this, all by action, this, all by contemplation, this, all by
   the pastoral office; and whilst all give it all by the observance of
   the commandments, yet some give it with less perfection than others.

   Yea, even Jacob who was called in Daniel the holy one of God, [446] and
   whom God declares himself to have loved, protests that he had served
   Laban with all his strength, and why did he serve Laban, but to obtain
   Rachel, whom he loved with all his strength? He serves Laban with all
   his strength, he serves God with all his strength; he loves Rachel with
   all his strength, he loves God with all his strength: yet withal he
   loves not Rachel as God, nor God as Rachel; he loves God as his God,
   above all things and more than himself; he loves Rachel as his wife,
   above all other women, and as himself. He loves God with an absolutely
   and sovereignly supreme love; and Rachel with a supreme nuptial love.
   Nor is the one love contrary to the other, since that of Rachel does
   not violate the privileges and sovereign prerogatives of the love of
   God.

   So that our love to God, Theotimus, takes its worth from the eminence
   and excellence of the motive for which, and according to which, we love
   him; in that we love him for his sovereign infinite goodness, as God,
   and because he is God. Now one drop of this love is worth more, has
   more power, and deserves more esteem, than all the other loves that can
   ever enter into the hearts of men or amongst the choirs of angels. For
   while this love lives, it reigns and bears the sceptre over all the
   affections, making God to be preferred in its will before all things,
   indifferently, universally, and without reserve.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [443] Ps. cxviii.

   [444] Kings xviii. 5.

   [445] Kings xxiii. 25.

   [446] Dan. iii. 35.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   OF TWO DEGREES OF PERFECTION WITH WHICH THIS COMMANDMENT MAY BE KEPT IN
   THIS MORTAL LIFE.

   While the great King Solomon, possessing as yet the Spirit of God, was
   composing the sacred Canticle of Canticles, he had, according to the
   permission of those ages, a great variety of ladies and maidens
   attached to his service in different conditions and qualities. For  1°.
   There was one, his singularly dear and wholly perfect one, most rare,
   as a singular dove, with whom the others entered not into comparison,
   and for this reason she was called by his own name, Sulamitess. [447]
   2°. There were sixty, who, next to her, had the first rank of honour
   and estimation, and were called queens.  3°. There were, further,
   eighty ladies who were not indeed queens, but were in a recognized and
   honourable relation to him.  4°. There were young maidens without
   number, kept ready to be put in the place of the foregoing as was
   required. Now under the figure of what passed in his palace, he
   described the various perfections of souls who in time to come were to
   adore, love and serve the great Pacific King Jesus Christ, our Saviour;
   amongst whom there are some, who being newly freed from their sins, and
   quite resolved to love God, are yet novices, apprentices, tender and
   feeble: so that they love indeed the divine sweetness, yet with such
   mixture of other affections that their sacred love being still as it
   were in its infancy; they love together with our Saviour, many
   superfluous, vain and dangerous things. And as a phoenix newly hatched
   from out its ashes, having as yet but little, tender feathers and its
   first down, can only essay short flights, in which it should be said
   rather to leap than to fly; so these tender young souls, newly born
   from the ashes of their penance, cannot as yet soar on high, or fly in
   the broad air of sacred love, being held captives by the multitude of
   bad inclinations and evil habits which the sins of their past life have
   left them. Still they are living, they are animated with and possessed
   of love, yea and with true love too, else had they never forsaken sin;
   yet with a love still feeble and young, which, environed with a number
   of other loves, cannot produce fruit in such abundance as it would do
   if it had the full possession of the heart.

   Such was the prodigal son, when, quitting the infamous company or the
   swine, amongst which he had lived, he returned into his father's arms,
   half-naked, unclean and bemired, and smelling most offensively of the
   filth which he had contracted in the company of those vile beasts. For
   what is it to forsake the swine, but to withdraw from sins? And what is
   it to return all ragged, tattered and unclean, but to have our
   affections engaged in the habits and inclinations which tend to sin?
   Yet still was he possessed of the life of the soul which is love; and
   as a phoenix rising out of its ashes, he found himself newly raised to
   life. He was dead, said his father, and is come to life again, [448] he
   has revived. And these souls are called young maidens in the Canticles,
   forasmuch as, having perceived the odour of the name of the beloved who
   breathes nothing but salvation and mercy, they love him with a true
   love, but a love, which is as themselves, in its tender youth. For even
   as young girls love their husbands properly if they have one, yet do
   not cease to greatly love rings and trifles, or their companions, with
   whom they amuse themselves extravagantly in playing, dancing and
   silliness, busying themselves with little birds, little dogs, squirrels
   and other such playthings;--so these young and novice-souls have truly
   an affection for the sacred lover, yet admit they with it a number of
   voluntary distractions and diversions: so that loving him above all
   things, they yet busy themselves in many things, which they love, not
   according to him but besides him, out of him, and without him. In
   truth, though little irregularities in words, in gestures, in apparel,
   in pastimes and follies, are not, properly speaking, against the will
   of God; yet are they not according to it, but out of it and without it.

   But there are souls who, having already made some progress in the love
   of God, have also cut off all the love they had to dangerous things,
   and yet entertain dangerous and superfluous loves: because they love
   with excess, and with a love too tender and passionate, what God
   ordains they should love. It stood with God's pleasure that Adam should
   love Eve tenderly, yet not with such tenderness that, to content her,
   he should violate the order given him by his divine majesty. He loved
   not then a superfluous thing, nor a thing in itself dangerous, but he
   loved it superfluously and with danger. The love of our parents,
   friends and benefactors, is in itself according to God, yet we may love
   them with excess; as also our vocations, be they never so spiritual:
   our exercises also of devotion (which yet we ought so greatly to love)
   may be loved inordinately, as when we prefer them before obedience, or
   before a more general good; or when we love them as if they were our
   last end, while they are only means and furtherances to our final
   intention, which is the divine love. And these souls, who love nothing
   but what God would have them to love, and yet exceed in the manner of
   loving, love indeed the divine goodness above all things, yet not in
   all things: for the things, which, not only by permission but even by
   command, they are to love according to God, they love not only
   according to God, but for other causes and motives, which though indeed
   not contrary to God, yet are out of him. So that these souls resemble
   the phoenix, when, having got its first feathers and beginning to grow
   strong it already soars at large in the air, but has not yet strength
   enough to remain long on the wing, and often descends to earth to rest
   there. Such was the poor young man, who having from his tender age
   observed God's commandments, desired not his neighbour's goods, yet
   clung to his own over tenderly: so that when our Saviour counselled him
   to give them to the poor, he became sad and melancholy. He loved
   nothing but what he might lawfully love, yet he loved it with a
   superfluous and too attached a love. It is plain, Theotimus, that these
   souls love too ardently and with superfluity; still, as they love not
   the superfluities, but only the thing, which may be loved, therefore
   they are entitled to the favours of the heavenly Solomon, namely,
   unions, recollections, and the repose of love, whereof we spoke in
   Books V. and VI.: but they do not enjoy them in quality of spouses,
   because the superfluity with which they love good things, hinders them
   from a frequent entry into these divine unions with the spouse; they
   are engaged in, and distracted by, loving that out of him and without
   him, which they ought not to love but in him and for him.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [447] Spouse of Solomon [Tr.]

   [448] Luke xv. 32.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   OF TWO OTHER DEGREES OF GREATER PERFECTION, BY WHICH WE MAY LOVE GOD
   ABOVE ALL THINGS.

   Now there are other souls who neither love superfluities, nor yet with
   superfluity, but love only that which God wills and as he
   wills:--blessed souls, who love God, their friends in God, and their
   enemies for God; they love many things together with God, but none at
   all, save in God and for God: it is God that they love, not only above
   all things, but even in all things, and all things in God, resembling
   the phoenix when perfectly renewed in youth and strength, which is
   never seen but in the air, or upon the tops of mountains that are in
   high air: for so these souls love nothing but in God; though indeed
   they love many things with God, and God with many things. S. Luke
   recounts that our Saviour invited a young man to follow him, who indeed
   loved him dearly, but who had also a great affection for his father,
   and thereupon had a mind to return home to him. But our Saviour cuts
   off this superfluity of love, and excites him to a love more pure, that
   he may not only love our Saviour more than his father, but not even
   love his father at all, but in our Saviour. Let the dead bury their
   dead: but as for thee (who hast met with life), go thou, and preach the
   kingdom of God. [449] And these souls, as you see, Theotimus, having so
   great a union with the spouse, merit to share his rank, and to be
   queens, as he is king; since they are entirely dedicated to him without
   any division or separation, having no affections out of him, or without
   him, but only in him and for him.

   But, at last, above all these souls, there is yet one most only one,
   who is the queen of queens, the most loving, the most lovely, and the
   most beloved, of all the friends of the divine beloved, who not only
   loves God above all things and in all things, but also loves only God
   in all things, so that she loves not many things, but one only thing,
   which is God himself. And whereas it is God alone whom she loves in all
   that she loves, she loves him indifferently in all things, according as
   his good-pleasure may require, outside all things and without all
   things. If it be only Esther that Assuerus loves, why should he love
   her more when perfumed and adorned, than in her ordinary attire? If it
   be my Saviour only that I love, why shall I not as much love Mount
   Calvary as Mount Thabor, since he is as truly on the one, as on the
   other? And why shall I not as affectionately in one as in the other
   say: It is good for us to be here. [450] I love my Saviour in Egypt,
   without loving Egypt; why shall I not love him at the banquet of Simon
   the leper, without loving the banquet? And if I love him amidst the
   blasphemies which are poured upon him, not loving the blasphemies, why
   shall I not love him perfumed with Magdalen's ointment, without loving
   either the ointment or its scent? It is the true sign that we love only
   God in all things, when we love him equally in all things, because he
   being always equal to himself, the inequality of our love towards him
   must needs proceed from the consideration of something that is not
   himself. Now this sacred loving one loves no more her God with all the
   world, than if he were alone without the world: because all that is out
   of God, and is not God, is nothing to her. She is an all-pure soul who
   loves not even Paradise but because her beloved is loved there: and he
   is so sovereignly beloved in his Paradise that if yet he had no
   Paradise to bestow, he would neither appear less amiable, nor be less
   beloved of this generous loving heart, who cannot love the Paradise of
   her spouse but only her spouse of Paradise, and who puts no less price
   on Calvary while her spouse is there crucified, than upon Paradise
   where he is glorified. He that weighs one of the little balls of the
   heart of S. Clare of Montefalco, finds it as heavy as all the three
   together. So does perfect love find God as amiable all alone, as it
   finds all creatures together with him, since it loves all creatures
   only in God and for God.

   Souls in this degree of perfection are so rare that each one is called
   the only one of her mother, who is divine Providence; she is called the
   one dove, for whom the love of her mate is all; she is termed perfect,
   because by love she is made the same thing with the sovereign
   Perfection, whence she may say with a most humble truth: I to my
   beloved and his turning towards me. [451] Now there is no one save the
   most blessed Virgin our Lady, who has perfectly arrived at this height
   of excellence in the love of her dearly beloved: for she is a dove so
   singularly singular in love, that all the rest being compared to her
   are rather to be termed daws than doves. But leaving this peerless
   queen in her matchless eminence,--there have yet been other souls who
   have been in such estate of pure love that in comparison with others
   they might take the rank of queens, of only doves, of perfect friends
   of the spouse. For I pray you, Theotimus, what must he needs have been,
   who with all his heart sang to God: What have I in heaven, and besides
   thee what do I desire upon earth? [452] And he that cried out: I count
   all things but as dung that I may gain Christ; [453] --did he not
   testify that he loved nothing out of his master, and that he loved his
   master without any other things? And what must have been the feelings
   of that great lover, who sighed all the night: "My God is to me all
   things." Such were S. Augustine, S. Bernard, the two SS. Catharine, of
   Siena and of Genoa, and many others, in imitation of whom every one may
   aspire to this divine degree of love: rare and singular souls, who
   resemble no longer the birds of this world, no not the very phoenix
   itself, though so singularly rare; but are only represented by that
   bird which, for its excellent beauty and nobleness is said not to be of
   this world, but of Paradise, of which it bears the name. For this fair
   bird disdaining the earth, never touches it, but lives above in the
   air; yea even when it desires to unweary itself, it will only cleave to
   the trees by little threads, hanging by them suspended in the air, out
   of which, or without which, it can neither fly nor repose. Even so
   these great souls do not, properly speaking, love creatures in
   themselves, but in their Creator, and their Creator in them. But if
   they cleave to any creature by the law of charity, it is only to repose
   in God, the single and final aim of their love. So that finding God in
   creatures, and creatures in God, they love God, not the creatures; as
   pearl-fishers, though they find the pearls in oysters, consider that
   they are simply fishing for pearls.

   At the same time no mortal creature, as I think, ever loved the
   heavenly lover solely with this perfectly pure love, except that Virgin
   who was his spouse and mother both together; on the contrary, as
   regards the practice of these four differences of love, one can hardly
   live without passing from one of them to another. The souls which like
   young maidens are still entangled in some vain and dangerous affections
   are not, at times, without feelings of a purer and supreme love; but as
   these are but momentary and passing flashes, we cannot say that they
   raise them from the state of young novice, or apprentice, maidens. It
   happens also sometimes, to the souls who are in the degree of singular
   and perfect lovers, that they forget themselves and fail very sadly,
   even as far as to the committing great imperfections and grievous
   venial sins, as we see in various somewhat bitter dissensions which
   have occurred between great servants of God, yea even amongst some of
   the divine Apostles, who, as we cannot deny, fell into some
   imperfections; certainly charity was not violated by them, but the
   fervour of it was. Nevertheless, as these great souls ordinarily loved
   God with the perfectly pure love, we are not to say that they were not
   in the state of perfect love. For as we see that good trees never
   produce any hurtful fruit, yet sometimes bear green or defective and
   worm-eaten fruit, or mistletoe and moss; so great saints never produce
   any mortal sin, but still they produce some useless, immature, harsh,
   rough and ill-flavoured actions. In such cases we must allow that these
   trees are fruitful, otherwise they would not be good trees; but still
   we must not deny that some of their fruits are fruitless. For who will
   deny that catkins and the mistletoe of trees are fruitless fruits? And
   who also will deny that slight angers and little excesses of joy, of
   laughter, of vanity and of other similar passions, are unprofitable and
   unlawful movements? Yet the just man brings them forth seven times a
   day, that is, very often.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [449] Luke ix. 60.

   [450] Matt. xvii. 4.

   [451] Cant. vii. 10.

   [452] Ps. lxxii. 25.

   [453] Phil. iii. 8.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   THAT THE LOVE OF GOD ABOVE ALL THINGS IS COMMON TO ALL LOVERS.

   Though there are so many degrees of love amongst true lovers, yet is
   there but one commandment of love, which universally and equally
   obliges every one, with an exactly like and entirely equal obligation,
   though it be observed differently and with an infinite variety of
   perfections; there being perhaps no souls on earth, as there are no
   angels in heaven, who are perfectly equal to one another in their love.
   As one star differs from another in brightness, so shall it be with the
   Blessed in their resurrection, when each one sings a canticle of glory,
   and receives a name which no man knoweth but he that receiveth it.
   [454] But what degree of love is it then, to which the divine
   commandment equally, universally and continually obliges all?

   It is an action of the providence of the Holy Ghost, that in our
   ordinary version, which his divine majesty has canonized and sanctified
   by the Council of Trent, the heavenly commandment of love is expressed
   by the word dilection rather than by the word love; for although
   dilection is a kind of love, yet is it not a simple love, but a love of
   choice and election, which sense the word itself conveys, as the
   glorious S. Thomas notes: for this commandment enjoins us a love chosen
   out of thousands, the well-beloved object of this love being chosen out
   of thousands, according to that of the beloved Sulamitess in the
   Canticles. [455] It is a love which must prevail over all our loves,
   and reign over all our passions. And this is what God requires of
   us--that among all our loves his be the dearest, holding the first
   place in our hearts; the warmest, occupying our whole soul; the most
   general, employing all our powers; the highest, filling our whole
   spirit; and the strongest, exercising all our strength and vigour. And
   inasmuch as by this we choose and elect God for the sovereign object of
   our soul, it is a love of sovereign election, or an election of
   sovereign love. You are not ignorant, Theotimus, that there are various
   species of love, as for example, there is a fatherly love, a brotherly
   love, a filial love and a nuptial love; a love of society, of
   obligation, of dependence,--and a hundred more, which are all different
   in excellence, and are so proportioned to their objects that scarcely
   can they be applied or appropriated to any other. He who should love
   his father with the love of a brother only, would certainly not love
   him enough. He who should love his wife only like his father, would not
   love her properly; he who should love his servant with a filial love,
   would commit an impropriety. Love is like honour; for as honour is
   diversified according to the diversity of the excellences to which the
   honour is given, so loves are different according to the difference of
   the goodnesses for which we love. Sovereign honour is due to sovereign
   excellence, and sovereign love to sovereign goodness. The love of God
   is a love without peer, because the goodness of God is a peerless
   goodness. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and therefore,
   Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy
   whole soul, and with thy whole strength. [456] For as God is the only
   Lord, his goodness is infinitely above all goodness, and he is to be
   loved with a love which is eminent, excellent, and mighty beyond all
   comparison. It is this supreme love which places God in such esteem in
   our souls, and makes us repute it so great a happiness to be agreeable
   in his sight, that we prefer him and love him above all things. Now,
   Theotimus, do you not plainly see, that he who loves God in this sort
   has dedicated his whole soul and strength to God, since ever, and for
   ever, and in all occurrences, he will prefer the good grace of God to
   all things, and will be ever ready to forsake the whole world, in order
   to preserve the love which is due to the divine goodness. And, in a
   word, it is the love of excellence, or the excellence of love, which is
   commanded to all mortals in general, and to each one of them in
   particular as soon as they have the free use of reason: a love
   sufficient for each one, and necessary for salvation to all.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [454] Apoc. ii. 17.

   [455] Cant. v. 10.

   [456] Deut. vi. 4, 5.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   EXPLANATION OF THE PRECEDING CHAPTER.

   We do not always know, nor ever with perfect certainty (at least with
   certainty of faith), whether we have the true love of God which is
   required for salvation; still we have many marks of it, amongst which
   the most assured and almost infallible appears when some great love of
   creatures opposes itself to the designs of God's love; for then, if
   divine love is in the soul, it displays the greatness of the credit and
   authority which it has over the will, showing effectively, not only
   that it has no master, but that it has not even a companion, repressing
   and overthrowing all opposition, and making its intentions obeyed. When
   the unhappy troop of diabolic spirits, revolting from their Creator,
   essayed to draw to their faction the holy company of the blessed
   spirits, the glorious S. Michael, animating his comrades to the
   fidelity which they owed to their God, cried with loud voice (but in
   angelic sort) through the heavenly Jerusalem: "Who is like to God?" And
   by this word he overthrew that traitor Lucifer with his rout, who would
   have equalled themselves with the divine majesty; and thence, as it is
   said, the name was given to S. Michael, since Michael simply means Who
   is like to God? And when the loves of created things would draw our
   hearts to their party, to make us disobedient to the divine majesty, if
   the great divine love be found in the soul, it makes head against it,
   as another S. Michael, and establishes the powers and forces of the
   soul in God's service by this word of steadfastness: Who is like to
   God? What goodness is there in creatures which ought to draw the human
   heart into rebellion against the sovereign goodness of its God?

   When the holy and noble Joseph perceived that the love of his mistress
   tended to the ruin of that which was due to his master: Ah! said he, be
   it far from me that I should violate the respect which I owe to my
   master, who reposes so much trust in me? How then can I do this wicked
   thing, and sin against my God? [457] Mark, Theotimus, how there are
   three loves in the heart of this admirable Joseph, for he loves his
   mistress, his master, and God; but as soon as his mistress's love rises
   up against his master's, he suddenly forsakes it and flies, as he would
   also have forsaken his master's, if he had found it contrary to God's.
   Amongst all loves, God's is so to be preferred that we must always
   stand prepared in mind to forsake them all for that alone.

   Abraham loved Sarai and Agar, and until Agar began to despise her
   mistress it could not well have been discerned which he loved the
   better. But when these two loves came into comparison with one another,
   the good Abraham made quite clear which was the stronger. For no sooner
   had Sarai complained that she was contemned by Agar, than he told her:
   Behold thy handmaid is in thy own hand, use her as it pleaseth thee.
   [458] Wherefore Sarai so afflicted the poor Agar that she was driven to
   run away. Divine love is willing for us to have other loves; nor can we
   easily discover which is the chief love of our heart: for this human
   heart often draws most affectionately into its complacency the love of
   creatures; yea, on many occasions it makes the acts of its affection
   for the creature far more numerous than that of its dilection for its
   Creator. Yet all the time sacred dilection ceases not to excel all the
   other loves, as the events show when the creature is opposed to the
   Creator; for then we take the part of sacred dilection, submitting unto
   it all our other affections.

   There is often a difference, among created things, between greatness
   and goodness. One of Cleopatra's pearls was worth more than our highest
   mountain; but the latter is much greater: the one has more bulk, the
   other more worth. It is made a question whether the honour which a
   prince achieves in war by feats of arms, or that which he merits by
   justice in time of peace be greater; and it seems to me that military
   glory is grander, and the other better; as, among instruments, drums
   and trumpets make more noise, lutes and virginals more melody; the
   sound of the one is stronger, of the other sweeter and more spiritual.
   An ounce of balm gives not so strong an odour as a pound of oil of
   lavender, but at the same time the smell of balm is better and more
   agreeable.

   Truly, Theotimus, you will see a mother so busy about her child that
   she might seem to have no other love but that, having eyes only to see
   it, mouth to kiss it, breast to give it suck, care to bring it up; and
   one would think that her husband was nothing to her, in respect of her
   child; but if she had to make choice which she would lose, then would
   be plainly seen that she more values her husband, and that though the
   love of her child was more tender, more pressing and passionate, yet
   that other was the more excellent, stronger and better. So when a heart
   loves God in respect of his infinite goodness, with however little a
   portion of this excellent love, it will prefer God's will before all
   things, and in all the occasions that present themselves it will
   forsake everything, to preserve itself in grace with the sovereign
   goodness, and nothing whatever will divert it from this. So that,
   though this divine love does not always so sensibly affect and melt the
   heart as do the other loves; yet, on occasions, it performs actions so
   noble and excellent, that one of them only is better than ten millions
   of the others. Rabbits are incomparably fertile, elephants never have
   more than one calf; but this little elephant alone is of greater price
   than all the rabbits in the world. Our love towards creatures often
   abounds in the multitude of productions; but when sacred love acts its
   work is so eminent that it surpasses all: for it causes God to be
   preferred before all things, without reserve.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [457] Gen. xxxix. 8.

   [458] Gen. xvi. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   A MEMORABLE HISTORY TO MAKE CLEARLY UNDERSTOOD IN WHAT THE FORCE AND
   EXCELLENCE OF HOLY LOVE CONSIST.

   How great an extent then, O my dear Theotimus, ought the force of this
   sacred love of God above all things to have? It must surpass all
   affections, vanquish all difficulties, and prefer the honour of God's
   good-will before all things; yea I say, before all things absolutely,
   without any exception or reservation; and I speak thus with such great
   distinctness, because there are men who would courageously forsake
   their goods, honour, and their own life for our Lord, who yet will not
   leave for his sake things of much less consideration.

   In the reign of the Emperors Valerianus and Gallus, there lived in
   Antioch a priest named Sapricius, and a layman named Nicephorus, who by
   reason of their long and exceeding great friendship were considered as
   brothers: and yet it happened in the end, I know not upon what
   occasion, that this friendship failed, and according to custom was
   followed with a yet deeper hatred, which reigned for a time between
   them, till at length Nicephorus, acknowledging his fault, made three
   different attempts to be reconciled with Sapricius, to whom, now by one
   of their common friends, now by another, he sent words signifying all
   the satisfaction and submission that heart could have wished. But
   Sapricius, in no wise answering to his invitations, ever repulsed the
   reconciliation with as much contempt as Nicephorus besought it with
   humility; insomuch that the poor Nicephorus, thinking that if Sapricius
   saw him prostrate at his feet begging pardon he would be more touched
   to the heart with it, goes and finds him out and courageously casting
   himself down at his feet:--Reverend Father, says he, Ah! pardon me, I
   beseech thee by the bowels of our Saviour Jesus; but even this humility
   was disdained and rejected, together with his former endeavours.

   Meanwhile, behold a hot persecution arose against the Christians, in
   which Sapricius with others being apprehended did wonders in suffering
   a thousand thousand torments for the confession of his
   faith--especially when he was most roughly shaken and rolled in an
   instrument made purposely, after the manner of a wine-press--without
   ever losing his constancy. At this the Governor of Antioch being
   extremely irritated condemned him to death; whereupon he was publicly
   led out of prison towards the place where he was to receive the
   glorious crown of martyrdom. No sooner had Nicephorus learnt this, than
   immediately he ran, and having met Sapricius, throwing himself upon the
   ground: Alas! cried he, with a loud voice, O martyr of Jesus Christ,
   pardon me, for I have offended thee! But Sapricius taking no notice,
   the poor Nicephorus, getting again before him by a shorter way, came to
   him anew with the like humility, conjuring him to pardon him in these
   words: O martyr of Jesus Christ, pardon the offence which I have
   committed against thee, I who am but a man and subject to offend: for
   lo! a crown is already bestowed upon thee by our Saviour whom thou has
   not denied, yea thou hast confessed his holy name before many
   witnesses. But Sapricius continuing in his pride gave him not one word
   in answer; until the very executioners, wondering at the perseverance
   of Nicephorus, said to him: We have never seen so foolish a man as
   thee; this fellow is going even at this moment to die, what dost thou
   want with his pardon? To whom Nicephorus answering: Thou knowest not,
   said he, what it is I demand of this confessor of Jesus Christ, but God
   knows. Meantime Sapricius arrived at the place of execution, where yet
   again Nicephorus, casting himself upon the ground before him: I beseech
   thee, said he, O martyr of Jesus Christ, that it would please thee to
   pardon me, for it is written: Ask and it shall be granted thee: words
   which could not in the least bend the caitiff and rebellious heart of
   the miserable Sapricius, who, obstinately denying mercy to his
   neighbour, was himself deprived by the just judgment of God of the most
   glorious palm of martrydom. For the executioners commanding him to put
   himself on his knees, in order to behead him, he began to be daunted,
   and to parley with them, making in the end this deplorable and shameful
   submission: Oh! I pray you, behead me not: I will do what the Emperors
   order, and sacrifice to idols. Which the poor good Nicephorus hearing,
   with tears in his eyes began to cry: Ah! do not, I beseech thee,
   transgress the law and deny Jesus Christ; forsake him not, I beseech
   thee, lose not the crown of glory which with so great labours and
   torments thou hast obtained! But alas! this miserable priest coming to
   the altar of martyrdom there to consecrate his life to the eternal God,
   had not called to mind what the Prince of Martyrs had said: If
   therefore thou offer thy gift at the altar, and there thou remember
   that thy brother hath anything against thee; leave there thy offering
   before the altar, and go first to be reconciled to thy brother: and
   then coming thou shalt offer thy gift. [459] Wherefore God rejected his
   offering; and withdrawing his mercy from him, permitted him not only to
   lose the sovereign happiness of martyrdom, but even to fall headlong
   into the misery of idolatry; while the humble and meek Nicephorus,
   perceiving this crown of martyrdom vacant by the apostasy of the
   obdurate Sapricius, touched with an excellent and extraordinary
   inspiration, boldly presses forward to obtain it, saying to the
   officers and executioners: I am a Christian, my friends, I am in truth
   a Christian, and believe in Jesus Christ, whom this man has denied: put
   me, therefore, I beseech you, in his place, and cut off my head. At
   which the officers being extremely astonished, carried the tidings to
   the governor, who gave orders that Sapricius should be set at liberty,
   and that Nicephorus should be put to death, which happened on the 9th
   of February, about the year of our salvation 260, as Metaphrastes and
   Surius relate. A terrible history, and worthy of the gravest
   consideration in the subject we treat of! For did you note, my dear
   Theotimus, this courageous Sapricius--how bold and fervent he was in
   defence of his faith, how he was in the confession of our Saviour's
   name, while he was rolled and crushed in that press-like machine, how
   ready he was to receive the death-blow to fulfil the highest point of
   the divine law, preferring God's honour before his own life? And yet,
   because on the other side he prefers to the divine will the
   satisfaction which his cruel haughtiness takes in hating Nicephorus, he
   stops short in his course, and when he is on the point of coming up to
   and attaining the prize of glory by martyrdom, he miserably falls and
   breaks his neck, falling headlong into idolatry.

   It is therefore true, my Theotimus, that it is not enough for us to
   love God more than our own life, unless we also love him universally,
   absolutely, and without reserve, more than all we love or can love. But
   you will say to me, did not our Saviour assign the furthest point of
   our love towards him, when he said that greater love than this no man
   hath, that a man lay down his life for his friends? [460] It is true
   indeed, Theotimus, that amongst the particular acts and testimonies of
   divine love there is none so great as to undergo death for God's glory,
   yet it is also true that this is but one single act, and one single
   test; it is indeed the masterpiece of charity, but besides it charity
   exacts many things at our hands, and so much more forcibly and
   instantly as they are acts more easy, common and ordinary with all
   lovers, and more generally necessary to the preservation of sacred
   love. O miserable Sapricius! Durst thou be bold to affirm that thou
   didst love God as was fitting, whilst thou didst not prefer the will of
   God before the passion of hatred and rancour entertained in thy heart
   against the poor Nicephorus? To be willing to die for God is the
   greatest but not the only act of love which we owe to God; and to will
   this act only, excluding the others,--this is not charity, it is
   vanity. Charity is not fanciful, which she would be in the highest
   degree, if being resolved to please the beloved in things of greatest
   difficulty, she would permit us to displease him in easier matters. How
   can he will to die for God who will not live according to God?

   A well-ordered mind that is resolved to die for a friend, would also
   without doubt undergo all other things; for he that has once despised
   death ought to have despised everything. But the human spirit is weak,
   inconstant and humoursome, whence men sometimes rather choose to die
   than to undergo far slighter pains, and willingly give their life for
   extremely frivolous, childish, and vain satisfactions. Agrippina having
   learnt that the child she was bringing forth would be Emperor, indeed,
   but that he would put her to death: Let him kill me, said she, provided
   that he reign. Mark, I pray you, the disorder of this foolishly loving
   mother's heart; she preferred her son's dignity before her own life.
   Cato and Cleopatra chose death rather than to see their enemies exult
   and glory in their capture; and Lucretia chose to put herself cruelly
   to death rather than to be unjustly branded with the shame of a deed in
   which, it would seem, she was not guilty. How many are there who would
   willingly embrace death for their friends, and yet would not live in
   their service, or accomplish their other desires? A man exposes his
   life, who would not open his purse. And though there may be found many
   who engage their life for a friend's defence, yet scarcely is there one
   found in a century who will imperil his liberty, or lose an ounce of
   the most vain and unprofitable reputation or renown in the world, be it
   for never so dear a friend.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [459] Matt. v. 23, 24.

   [460] John xv. 13.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   A CONFIRMATION OF WHAT HAS BEEN SAID BY A NOTEWORTHY COMPARISON.

   You know, Theotimus, what was Jacob's love for his Rachel. And what did
   not he do to testify its greatness, force and fidelity, from the hour
   he had saluted her at the well? For from that time he never ceased to
   love her, and to gain her in marriage he served seven whole years with
   incredible devotion; yet he considered that all this was nothing, so
   much did love sweeten the pains which he supported for his beloved
   Rachel. And when he was, after all, disappointed of her, he served yet
   other seven years to obtain her; so constant, loyal and courageous was
   he in his affection; and having at length obtained her he neglected all
   other affections, scarcely even taking any account of the duty he had
   to Lia, his first spouse, a woman of great merit and very worthy to be
   cherished, whom God himself compassionated for the contempt she
   suffered, so remarkable was it.

   But after all this, which was enough to bring down the haughtiest woman
   in the world to the love of so loyal a lover, it is verily a shame to
   see the weakness which Rachel showed in her affection to Jacob. The
   poor Lia had no tie of love with Jacob except the fact that she was the
   mother of his four sons. Reuben the first of these had gone into the
   fields at harvest-time and found some mandrakes, which he brought as a
   present to his mother. [461] Rachel asked for some of them, and when
   poor Lia said: Dost thou think it a small matter that thou hast taken
   my husband from me, unless thou take also my son's mandrakes,--Rachel
   sold, as it were, the favours and love of her husband for the
   mandrakes. But Jacob was distressed, and his heart sank, when he
   understood the weakness and inconstancy of Rachel, who for so trifling
   a thing sacrificed for a time the honour and pleasure of his special
   love. For, tell me truly, Theotimus--was it not a strange and most
   fickle levity in Rachel, to prefer a heap of little apples to the
   chaste company of so amiable a husband? If it had been for kingdoms,
   for monarchies!--but for a miserable handful of mandrakes!--Theotimus,
   what think you of it?

   And yet, returning to ourselves, good God! how often do we make
   elections infinitely more shameful and wretched? The great S. Augustine
   upon a time took pleasure in leisurely viewing and contemplating
   mandrakes, the better to discern the cause why Rachel had so
   passionately coveted them, and he found that they were indeed pleasing
   to the sight, and of a delightful smell, yet altogether insipid and
   without flavour. Now Pliny relates that when the surgeons bring the
   juice of them to be drunk by those on whom they wish to make an
   incision, that they may not feel the operation, it happens often that
   the very smell works the effect and puts the patient sufficiently to
   sleep. Wherefore the mandrake is a bewitching plant, which enchants the
   eyes, and charms away pains, sorrows, and all passions by sleep.
   Besides, he who smells the scent of them too long turns mute, and he
   who drinks too much of them dies without remedy.

   Theotimus, could worldly pomps, riches and delights be better
   represented? They have an attractive outside, but he who bites this
   apple, that is, he who sounds their nature, finds neither taste nor
   contentment in them, nevertheless they enchant us and put us to sleep
   by the vanity of their smell; and the renown which the children of the
   world attach to them, benumbs and destroys those who give themselves up
   to them too intently, or take them too abundantly. And it is for such
   mandrakes, chimeras and phantoms of content, that we cast off the love
   of the heavenly beloved; and how then can we say that we love him above
   all things, since we prefer such empty vanities before his grace?

   Is it not a marvel, but one worthy of tears, to see David, so noble in
   surmounting hatred, so generous in pardoning injuries, and yet so
   furiously unjust in love, that not content with possessing justly a
   great multitude of wives, he iniquitously usurps and takes away the
   wife of poor Urias, and by an insupportable cruelty causes the husband
   to be slain, that he may the better enjoy the love of the wife? Who
   would not wonder at the heart of a S. Peter, which was so bold amidst
   the armed soldiers that he alone of all his master's company takes
   sword in hand and strikes; and yet a little afterwards he is so
   cowardly amongst the women, that at the mere word of a maid he denies
   and forswears his master? And how can it seem so strange to us that
   Rachel could sell the chaste favours of her Jacob for the apples of the
   mandrake, since Adam and Eve actually forsook grace for an apple which
   a serpent offers them to eat?

   In fine, I say to you this word, worthy of note. Heretics are heretics
   and bear the name, because out of the articles of faith they choose at
   their taste and pleasure those which it seems good to them to believe,
   rejecting and denying the others. And Catholics are Catholics, because
   without any choice or election they embrace, with an equal assurance
   and without exception, all the faith of the Church. Now it is the same
   in the articles of charity. It is a heresy in sacred love to make
   choice among God's commandments, which to observe, and which to
   violate: he who said: Thou shalt not kill, said also: Thou shalt not
   commit adultery. If then thou kill not, but commit adultery, it is not
   for love for God that thou killest not, but it is from some other
   motive, which makes thee rather choose this commandment than the other;
   a choice which makes heresy in matter of charity. If a man told me that
   he would not cut off my arm on account of his love for me, and yet
   proceeded to pluck out my eye, to break my head, to run me
   through:--Ah! should I cry, how do you say that it is for love you do
   not cut off my arm, since you pluck out my eye which is no less
   precious to me, or run my body through with your sword, which is still
   more dangerous to me? It is a maxim that good comes from an entirely
   sound cause, evil from some defect. To make an act of true charity, it
   must proceed from an entire, general and universal love, which extends
   to all the divine commandments, and if we fail in any one commandment,
   love ceases to be entire and universal, and the heart wherein it is
   cannot be called truly loving, nor, consequently, truly good.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [461] Gen. xxx.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   THAT WE ARE TO LOVE THE DIVINE GOODNESS SOVEREIGNLY ABOVE OURSELVES.

   Aristotle was consistent in saying that good is indeed amiable, but to
   each one his own good principally, so that the love which we have for
   others proceeds from the love of ourselves:--for how could a
   philosopher say otherwise who not only did not love God, but hardly
   ever even spoke of the love of God? As a fact, however, this love of
   God precedes all love of ourselves, even according to the natural
   inclination of our will, as I have made clear in the first book.

   In truth, the will is so dedicated, and, if we may say it, consecrated
   to goodness, that if an infinite goodness be clearly proposed unto it,
   it must, unless by miracle, sovereignly love this goodness: yea, the
   Blessed are carried away and necessitated, though not forced, to love
   God whose sovereign beauty they clearly see; as the Scripture
   sufficiently shows in comparing the contentment which fills the hearts
   of the glorious inhabitants of the heavenly Jerusalem to a torrent and
   impetuous flood, whose waters cannot be kept from spreading over the
   plains it meets with.

   But in this mortal life, Theotimus, we are not necessitated to love him
   so sovereignly, because we see him not so clearly. In heaven, where we
   shall see him face to face, we shall love him heart to heart; that is,
   as we shall all see the infinity of his beauty, each in our measure,
   with a sovereignly clear sight, so shall we be ravished, with the love
   of his infinite goodness in a sovereignly strong rapture, to which we
   shall neither desire, nor be able to desire, to make any resistance.
   But here below on earth, where we do not see this sovereign goodness in
   its beauty, but only have a half-sight of it amid our obscurities, we
   are indeed inclined and allured to love him more than ourselves;--yet
   we are not necessitated: on the contrary, though we have this holy
   natural inclination to love the divinity above all things, yet we have
   not the strength to put it in execution, unless the same divinity
   infuse its most holy charity supernaturally into our hearts.

   Yet true it is that as the clear view of the divinity infallibly
   produces the necessity of loving it more than ourselves, so the
   half-view, that is, the natural knowledge, of the divinity, infallibly
   produces the inclination and tendency to love it more than ourselves;
   for, I pray you, Theotimus, since the will is wholly ordained unto the
   love of good, how can it know, ever so little, a sovereign good without
   being so far inclined to love it sovereignly? Of all goods which are
   not infinite, our will always prefers in its love that which is nearest
   to it, and chiefly its own; but there is so little proportion between
   the infinite and the finite, that our will having knowledge of an
   infinite good is without doubt moved, inclined and excited to prefer
   the friendship of this abyss of infinite goodness before every other
   sort of love, yea even the love of ourselves.

   This inclination is strong principally because we are more in God than
   in ourselves, we live more in him than in ourselves, and are in such
   sort from him, by him, for him and belonging to him, that we cannot
   undistractedly consider what we are to him and he is to us, without
   being forced to exclaim: I am thine, Lord, and must belong to none but
   thee; my soul is thine, and ought not to live but by thee, my will is
   thine, and is only to tend to thee, I must love thee as my first
   principle since I have my being from thee, I must love thee as my end
   and centre since I am for thee, I must love thee more than my own
   being, since my being subsists by thee, I must love thee more than
   myself, since I am wholly thine and in thee.

   And in case there were or could be some sovereign good whereof we were
   independent, we should also, supposing that we could unite ourselves
   unto it by love, be excited to love this more than ourselves, seeing
   that the infinity of its sweetness would be still sovereignly more
   powerful to draw our will to its love than all other goods, yea, even
   than our own good.

   But if, by imagination of a thing impossible, there were an infinite
   goodness on which we had no dependence whatever, and with which we
   could have no kind of union or communication, we should indeed esteem
   it more than ourselves, for we should know that being infinite it would
   be more estimable and lovable than we; and consequently we should be
   able to make simple desires of being able to love it; yet, properly
   speaking, we should not love it, since love aims at union; and much
   less could we have charity towards it, since charity is a friendship,
   and friendship cannot be unless it be reciprocal, having for its
   groundwork communication, and for its end union: I speak thus for the
   benefit of certain fantastic and empty spirits, who very often on
   baseless imaginations revolve morbid thoughts to their own great
   affliction. But as for us, Theotimus, my dear friend, we see plainly
   that we cannot be true men without putting this inclination into
   effect. Let us love him more than ourselves who is to us more than all
   and more than ourselves. Amen, so it is.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   HOW HOLY CHARITY PRODUCES THE LOVE OF OUR NEIGHBOUR.

   As God created man to his own image and likeness, so did he appoint for
   man a love after the image and resemblance of the love which is due to
   his own divinity. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God, with thy whole
   heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole mind. This is the
   greatest, and the first commandment. And the second is like to this:
   Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. [462] Why do we love God,
   Theotimus? "The cause for which we love God," says S. Bernard, "is God
   Himself;" as though he had said: we love God because he is the most
   sovereign and infinite goodness. And why do we love ourselves in
   charity? Surely because we are the image and likeness of God; and
   whereas all men are endowed with the same dignity, we love them also as
   ourselves, that is, as being holy and living images of the divinity.
   For it is on that account that we belong to God by so strict an
   alliance and so sweet a dependence of love, that he makes no difficulty
   to call himself our father, and to call us his children; it is on that
   account that we are capable of being united to his divine essence by
   the fruition of his sovereign goodness and felicity; it is on that
   account that we receive his grace, that our spirits are associated to
   his most Holy Spirit, and made in a manner participant of his divine
   nature, as S. Leo says. And therefore the same charity which produces
   the acts of the love of God, produces at the same time those of the
   love of our neighbour. And even as Jacob saw that one same ladder
   touched heaven and earth, serving the angels both for descending and
   ascending, so we know that one same charity extends itself to both the
   love of God and our neighbour, raising us to the union of our spirit
   with God, and bringing us back again to a loving society with our
   neighbours; always, however, on the understanding that we love our
   neighbour as being after the image and likeness of God, created to have
   communication with the divine goodness, to participate in his grace,
   and to enjoy his glory.

   Theotimus, to love our neighbour in charity is to love God in man, or
   man in God; it is to hold God alone dear for his own sake and the
   creature for the love of him. The young Tobias, accompanied by the
   angel Raphael, having met with Raguel his relative, by whom, however,
   he was unknown,--Raguel had no sooner set eyes upon him, says the
   Scripture, but turning himself towards his wife: Anna, look, look, said
   he, how like is this young man to my cousin? And when he had spoken
   these words, he said: whence are ye, young men our brethren? But they
   said, we are of the tribe of Nephthali, of the captivity of Ninive. And
   Raguel said to them: Do you know Tobias my brother? And they said, we
   know him. And when he was speaking many good things of him, the angel
   said to Raguel: Tobias concerning whom thou inquirest is this young
   man's father. And Raguel went to him, and kissed him with tears, and
   weeping upon his neck, said: a blessing be upon thee, my son, because
   thou art the son of a virtuous man. And Anna his wife and Sara their
   daughter wept, [463] through tenderness of affection. Do you not
   observe that Raguel, without knowing the younger Tobias, embraces,
   caresses, kisses him, and weeps for joy over him. Whence proceeds this
   love but from that which he had for the old Tobias, the father, whom
   this child did so much resemble? A blessing be upon thee, said he; but
   why? certainly not because thou art a good youth, for that as yet I
   know not, but because thou art son, and like, to thy father, a good and
   most virtuous man.

   Ah! then, Theotimus, when we see a neighbour who is created to the
   image and likeness of God, ought we not to say one to another: Observe
   and see this creature, how he resembles the Creator? Might we not cast
   ourselves upon his neck, to caress him and weep over him with love?
   Should we not bless him a thousand and a thousand times? And why? For
   the love of him? No verily: for we know not whether he be worthy of
   love or hatred in himself; but wherefore then? O Theotimus! for the
   love of God, who has made him to his own image and likeness, and
   consequently capable of participating in his goodness, in grace and in
   glory. For the love of God, I say, from whom he is, whose he is, by
   whom he is, in whom he is, for whom he is, and whom he resembles in a
   most particular manner. Wherefore the love of God not only oftentimes
   commands the love of our neighbour, but itself produces this love and
   pours it into man's heart, as its resemblance and image: for even as
   man is the image of God, so the sacred love of man towards man, is the
   true image of the heavenly love of man towards God. But this subject of
   the love of our neighbour requires a treatise apart, which I beseech
   the sovereign lover of men to will to inspire into some one of his most
   excellent servants, since the supreme love of the divine goodness of
   the heavenly Father, consists in the perfection of the love of our
   brothers and companions.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [462] Matt. xxii. 37.

   [463] Tobias vii. 2-8
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   HOW LOVE PRODUCES ZEAL.

   As love tends towards the good of the thing beloved, either by taking
   delight in it if the beloved have it, or in desiring and procuring it
   for him if he have it not; so it produces hatred, by which it flies the
   evil which is contrary to the thing beloved, either by desiring and
   seeking to remove it if it be there, or by keeping it off and
   preventing its coming if it be not there. But if evil can neither be
   hindered from approaching, nor be removed, love at least fails not to
   have it hated and detested. When love therefore is fervent, and is come
   to that height that it would take away, remove and divert, what is
   opposite to the thing beloved, it is termed zeal. So that, to describe
   it properly, zeal is no other thing than love in its ardour, or rather
   the ardour that is in love. And therefore, such as the love is, such is
   the zeal, which is its ardour. If the love be good its zeal is good, if
   the love be bad its zeal is bad. Now when I speak of zeal, I mean to
   speak of jealousy too: for jealousy is a species of zeal, and if I am
   not mistaken, there is but this difference between them, that zeal
   regards the whole good of the thing beloved, with the intention of
   removing the contrary evil from it, and jealousy regards the particular
   good of the friendship, that it may repulse all that opposes that.

   When therefore we ardently love worldly and temporal things, beauty,
   honours, riches, rank,--this zeal, that is the ardour of this love,
   ends ordinarily in envy: because these base and vile things are so
   little, limited, particular, finite and imperfect, that being possessed
   by one, another cannot entirely possess them. So that being
   communicated to many, each one in particular has a less perfect
   communication of them. But when, in particular, we ardently love to be
   beloved, the zeal or ardour of this love turns into jealousy; because
   human friendship, though otherwise a virtue, has this imperfection by
   reason of our weakness, that being divided amongst many, each one's
   part is less. Whereupon our ardour or zeal to be beloved will not
   permit rivals or companions; and if we imagine we have any, we
   immediately enter into the passion of jealousy, which indeed in some
   sort resembles envy, but in reality is very different from it.  1°.
   Envy is always unjust, but jealousy is sometimes just, if it be
   moderate: for have not married people good reason to hinder their
   friendship from being diminished by being shared?  2°. Envy makes us
   sorry that our neighbour enjoys a greater good than, or a like good
   with, ourselves; although he is taking from us nothing that we have;
   and here envy is unreasonable, making us consider our neighbour's good
   to be our ill. But jealousy is not grieved at our neighbour's having
   some good provided that it is not our good: for the jealous man does
   not grieve at his fellow's being beloved by other women so long as he
   is not loved by the jealous man's wife; indeed, properly speaking, one
   is not jealous of a rival until one belives that one has gained the
   friendship of the person loved: if there be any passion before that, it
   is not jealousy but envy.  3°. We do not presuppose any imperfection in
   the person we envy, but on the contrary we consider that he has the
   good which we envy in him: but we presuppose that the person of whom we
   are jealous is imperfect, fickle, changeable and easily led away.  4°.
   Jealousy proceeds from love, envy comes from the defect of love.  5°.
   Jealousy never happens but in matter of love, but envy is extended to
   all kinds of goods--honours, favours, beauty. And if at any time one be
   envious of the affection which is borne to another, it is not for love,
   but for the fruits that spring from it. The envious man is little
   troubled to see his fellow in favour with his prince, so that he be not
   on occasions graced and preferred by him.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   HOW GOD IS JEALOUS OF US.

   God speaks thus: I am the Lord thy God, a jealous God. [464] The Lord
   his name is jealous. [465] God is jealous then, Theotimus, but what is
   his jealousy? Truly it seems at first to be a jealousy of cupidity such
   as is that of husbands for their wives: for he will have us so to be
   his, that he will in no sort have us to be any other's but his. No man,
   saith he, can serve two masters. [466] He demands all our heart, all
   our soul, all our mind, and all our strength; for this very reason he
   calls himself our spouse, and our souls his spouses; and names all
   sorts of separations from him, fornication, adultery. And high reason
   indeed has this great God, all singularly good, to exact most
   rigorously our whole heart: for ours is a little heart, which cannot
   supply love enough worthily to love the divine goodness. Is it not
   therefore meet, that since we cannot give him such measure of love as
   were requisite, that at least we should love him all we can? The good
   which is sovereignly lovable, ought it not to be sovereignly loved? Now
   to love sovereignly, is to love totally.

   However, God's jealousy of us is not truly a jealousy of cupidity, but
   of sovereign friendship: for it is not his interest that we should love
   him, but ours. Our love is useless to him, but to us a great gain; and
   if it be agreeable to him, it is because it is profitable to us: for
   being the sovereign good, he takes pleasure in communicating himself by
   love, without any kind of profit that can return to him thereby; whence
   he cries out making his complaint of sinners by way of jealousy: They
   have forsaken me, the fountain of living water, and have digged to
   themselves cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water. [467]
   Consider a little, Theotimus, I pray you, how delicately this divine
   lover expresses the nobility and generosity of his jealousy: They have
   left me, says he, who am the fountain of living water. As if he said: I
   complain not that they have forsaken me because of any injury their
   forsaking can cause me, for what the worse is a living spring if men do
   not draw water at it? Will it therefore cease to run, or to flow out on
   the earth? But I grieve for their misfortune, that having left me, they
   have chosen for themselves wells that have no water. And if, by
   supposition of an impossible thing, they could have met with some other
   fountain of living water, I would lightly bear their departure from me,
   since I aim at nothing in their love, but their own good. But to
   forsake me to perish, to fly from me to fall headlong, is what
   astonishes and offends me in their folly. It is then for the love of us
   that he desires we should love him, because we cannot cease to love him
   without beginning to be lost, and whatever part of our affections we
   take from him we lose.

   Put me, said the divine shepherd to the Sulamitess, as a seal upon thy
   heart, as a seal upon thy arm. [468] The Sulamitess had her heart quite
   full of the heavenly love of her dear lover, who, though he possess
   all, yet is not content with it, but by a holy distrust of jealousy
   will be set upon the heart which he possesses, and will seal it with
   himself, lest any of the love due to him escape, or anything get entry
   which might mingle with it. For he is not satisfied with the love with
   which the soul of his Sulamitess is filled, if it be not invariable,
   quite pure, quite solely his. And that he may not only enjoy the
   affections of our heart, but also the effects and operations of our
   hands, he will also be as a seal upon our right arm, that it may not be
   stretched out or employed save in the works of his service. And the
   reason of the divine lover's demand is, that as death is so strong that
   it separates the soul from all things, yea even from her own body, so
   sacred love which is come to the degree of zeal, divides and separates
   the soul from all other affections, and purifies her from all
   admixture; since it is not only strong as death, but it is withal
   bitter, inexorable, hard and pitiless in punishing the wrong done unto
   it, when rivals are entertained with it, as hell is hard in punishing
   the damned. And even as hell, full of horror, rage and cruelty, admits
   no mingling of love, so jealous love tolerates no mixture of another
   affection, willing that all be for the well-beloved. Nothing is so
   gentle as the dove, yet nothing so merciless as he towards his mate,
   when he has some feeling of jealousy. If ever you have taken notice,
   Theotimus, you will have seen that this mild bird, returning from his
   flight, and finding his mate amongst his companions, is not able to
   suppress in himself a certain sense of distrust, which makes him
   churlish and ill-humoured, so that at their first accosting he circles
   about her, murmuring, fretting, treading upon her, and beating her with
   his wings, although he knows well that she is faithful, and that he
   sees her in the pure white of innocence.

   One day S. Catharine of Siena was in a rapture which did not deprive
   her of the use of her senses, and while God was showing her wondrous
   things, one of her brothers passed by, and with the noise he made
   disturbed her attention, so that she turned and looked at him for a
   single little moment. This little distraction, so unforeseen and
   sudden, was neither sin, nor disloyalty, but only a shadow of sin and
   resemblance of disloyalty: and yet the most holy Mother of the heavenly
   lover did so earnestly chide her and the glorious S. Paul so put her to
   confusion for it, that she thought she should have melted away in
   tears. And David, re-established in grace by a perfect love, how was he
   treated for the simply venial sin which he had committed in numbering
   his people?

   But, Theotimus, he who desires to see this jealousy delicately and
   excellently described, must read the instructions which the seraphic S.
   Catharine of Genoa has made to declare the properties of pure love,
   amongst which she inculcates and strongly urges this;--that perfect
   love, namely, love which has gone as far as zeal, cannot suffer any
   mediation, interposition, or mingling of any other thing, not even of
   God's gifts, yea, up to this extreme, that it permits not even the love
   of heaven, except with intention to love more perfectly therein the
   goodness of him who gives it. So that the lamps of this pure love have
   neither oil, wick, nor smoke, but are all fire and flame, which nothing
   in the world can extinguish. And those who carry these burning lamps in
   their hands, possess the most holy fear of chaste spouses, not the fear
   which belongs to adulterous women. Those have fear, and these also, but
   differently, says S. Augustine; the chaste spouse fears the absence of
   her husband, the adulterous, the presence of hers. The former fears his
   departure, the latter his stay: the one is so deeply amorous that she
   is extremely jealous; the other is not jealous, because she is not
   amorous: the one fears to be punished, and the other fears that she may
   not be loved enough;--yet in sooth she does not precisely fear the not
   being loved enough, as other jealous persons do, who love themselves
   and want to be loved, but her fear is that she loves not him enough
   whom she sees so love-worthy that none can love him according to the
   greatness of the love which he deserves, as I have but just said.
   Wherefore she is not jealous with a jealousy of self-interest, but with
   a pure jealousy, which proceeds not from any cupidity, but from a noble
   and simple friendship; a jealousy which, with the love whence it
   proceeds, extends itself to our neighbour; for since we love our
   neighbour as ourselves for God's sake, we are also jealous of him, as
   of ourselves, for God's sake, so that we would even die that he may not
   perish.

   Now as zeal is an inflamed ardour, or an ardent inflaming of love, it
   requires to be wisely and prudently practised; otherwise, under the
   cloak of it, one would transgress the limits of moderation or
   discretion, and it would be easy to pass from zeal into anger, and from
   a just affection to an unjust passion; wherefore, this not being the
   proper place to put down the conditions of zeal, my Theotimus, I tell
   you that for the practice of it you must always have recourse to him
   whom God has given you for your direction in the devout life.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [464] Deut. v. 9.

   [465] Exod. xxxiv. 14.

   [466] Matt. vi. 24.

   [467] Jer. ii. 13.

   [468] Cant. viii. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   OF THE ZEAL OR JEALOUSY WHICH WE HAVE FOR OUR LORD.

   A Gentleman desired a famous painter to paint him a horse running, and
   the painter having presented the horse to him on its back, and as it
   were rolling in the mire, the gentleman began to storm; whereupon the
   painter turning the picture upside down: Be not angry, sir, said he; to
   change the position of a horse running into that of a horse rolling on
   its back, it is only necessary to reverse the picture. Theotimus, he
   who would clearly see what zeal or what jealousy we must have for God,
   has only to express properly the jealousy we have in human things, and
   then to turn it upside down, for such will that be which God requires
   from us for himself.

   Imagine, Theotimus, what comparison there is between those who enjoy
   the brightness of the sun, and those who have only the paltry light of
   a lamp; the former are not jealous of one another, for they know well
   that that great light is abundantly sufficiently for all, that the
   one's enjoyment does not hinder the other's, and that, although all
   possess it in general, each one possesses it none the less than if he
   alone possessed it in particular. But as to the light of a lamp, since
   it is little, limited, and insufficient for many, each one desires to
   have it in his chamber, and he that has it is envied by the rest. The
   good of human things is so trifling and beggarly, that when one has it,
   another must be deprived of it; and human friendship is so limited and
   weak, that in proportion as it communicates itself to the one, it is
   weakened for the others: this is why we are jealous and angry when we
   have rivals and companions in it. The heart of God is so abounding in
   love, his good is so absolutely infinite, that all men may possess him
   without lessening each one's possession; this infinity of goodness can
   never be drained, though it fill all the hearts of the universe; for
   when everything has been filled with it to the brim, his infinity ever
   remains to him quite entire, without any diminution whatever. The sun
   shines no less upon a rose together with a thousand millions of other
   flowers, than though it shone but upon that alone. And God pours his
   love no less over one soul, though he loves with it an infinity of
   others, than if he loved that one only: the force of his love not
   decreasing by the multitude of rays which it spreads, but remaining
   ever quite full of his immensity.

   But wherein consists the zeal or the jealousy which we ought to have
   for the divine goodness? Theotimus, its office is, first, to hate, fly,
   hinder, detest, reject, combat and overthrow, if one can, all that is
   opposed to God; that is, to his will, to his glory, and the
   sanctification of his name. I have hated and abhorred iniquity, [469]
   said David, and: Have I not hated them, O Lord, that hated thee: and
   pined away because of thy enemies. [470] My zeal hath made me pine away
   because my enemies forgot thy words. [471] In the morning I put to
   death all the wicked of the land; that I might cut off all the workers
   of iniquity from the city of the Lord. [472] See, I pray you,
   Theotimus, with what zeal this great king is animated, and how he
   employs the passions of his soul in the service of holy jealousy! He
   does not simply hate iniquity but abhors it; upon the sight of it he
   pines away, he falls into a swoon and a failing of heart, he persecutes
   it, overthrows it, and exterminates it. So Phinees transported with a
   holy zeal ran his sword through that shameless Israelite and vile
   Madianite; so the zeal which consumed our Saviour's heart, made him
   cast out and instantly take vengeance on the irreverence and
   profanation which those buyers and sellers committed in the temple.

   Secondly, zeal makes us ardently jealous of the purity of souls, which
   are the spouses of Jesus Christ, according to the word of the holy
   Apostle to the Corinthians: I am jealous of you with the jealousy of
   God, for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as
   a chaste virgin to Christ. [473] Eliezer would have been stung with
   jealousy, if he had perceived the chaste and fair Rebecca, whom he was
   conducting to be espoused to his master's son, in any danger of being
   dishonoured; and doubtless he might have said to this holy maiden: I am
   jealous of you with the jealousy I have for my master, for I have
   espoused you to one man, that I may present you a chaste virgin to the
   son of my lord Abraham. So would the great S. Paul say to his
   Corinthians: I was sent from God to your souls to arrange the marriage
   of an eternal union between his Son our Saviour, and you, and I have
   promised you to him to present you as a chaste virgin to this divine
   lover; behold why I am jealous, not with my own jealousy, but with the
   jealousy of God, in whose behalf I have treated with you. It was this
   jealousy, Theotimus, that caused this holy Apostle daily to die and
   swoon away; I die daily, said he, I protest by your glory. [474] Who is
   weak and I am not weak? Who is scandalized and I am not on fire? [475]
   Mark, say the ancients, mark what love, what care, and what jealousy a
   mother-hen has for her chickens (for our Saviour esteemed not this
   comparison unworthy of his Gospel). The hen is a very hen, that is, a
   creature without any courage or nobility, while she is not yet a
   mother, but with her mothership she puts on a lion's heart: ever the
   head up, the eyes on guard, and darting glances on every side, to espy
   the smallest appearance of danger to her little ones. There is no enemy
   at whose eyes she will not fly in defence of her dear brood, for which
   she has a continual solicitude, making her ever run about clucking and
   plaining. And if any of her chickens come to die,--what grief, what
   anger! This is the jealousy of parents for their children, of pastors
   for their flocks, of brothers for their brethren. What was the zeal of
   the children of Jacob when they knew that Dina had been insulted? What
   was the zeal of Job from the apprehension and fear he had that his
   children might have offended God? What was the zeal of a S. Paul for
   his brethren according to the flesh, and for his children according to
   God, for whose sake he desired to be cast out as worthy of anathema and
   excommunication? What the zeal of Moses for his people, for whom he is
   willing, in a certain manner to be struck out of the book of life?

   Thirdly, in human jealousy we are afraid lest the thing beloved be
   possessed by some other, but our zeal for God makes us on the contrary
   fear lest we should not be entirely enough possessed by him. Human
   jealousy makes us fear not to be loved enough, Christian jealousy
   troubles us with the fear of not loving enough; whence the sacred
   Sulamitess cried out: Show me, O thou whom my soul loveth, where thou
   feedest, where thou liest in the midday, lest I begin to wander after
   the flocks of thy companions. [476] Her fear is that she is not her
   sacred shepherd's own entirely, or that she may be led away, be it
   never so little, by those who wished to make themselves his rivals. For
   she will by no means permit that worldly pleasures, honours, or
   exterior goods shall take up a single particle of her love, which she
   has wholly dedicated to her dear Saviour.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [469] Ps. cxviii. 163.

   [470] Ps. cxxxviii. 21.

   [471] Ps. cxviii. 139.

   [472] Ps. c. 8.

   [473] 2 Cor. xi. 2.

   [474] 1 Cor. xv. 31.

   [475] 2 Cor. xi. 29.

   [476] Cant. i. 6.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XV.

   ADVICE FOR THE DIRECTION OF HOLY ZEAL.

   As zeal is an ardour and vehemence of love it stands in need of
   guidance; otherwise it would exceed the limits of moderation and
   discretion. Not indeed that divine love, however vehement, can be
   excessive in itself, or in the movements or inclinations which it gives
   to our spirit, but, inasmuch as it makes use of the understanding in
   the execution of its designs, ordering it to find out the means whereby
   they may be effected, and makes use of boldness or anger to surmount
   the difficulties which it meets with, the understanding often comes to
   propose and make us adopt courses too rough and violent, and anger or
   hardihood once aroused, and unable to contain itself within the limits
   of reason, carries away the heart into disorder, so that zeal is thus
   practised indiscreetly and inordinately; which makes it bad and
   blameworthy. David sent Joab with his army, against his disloyal and
   rebellious child, Absalom, whom he commanded them above all things not
   to injure, ordering that in all events they should take care to save
   him. But Joab being engaged, and being hot in the pursuit of the
   victory, with his own hand slew the poor Absalom, without regard to
   what the king had said to him. Even so, zeal employs anger against the
   evil, yet ever with express order, that in destroying wickedness and
   sin it should save, if possible, the sinner and the iniquitous: but it,
   once in its fury, like a hard-mouthed and wilful horse, runs away with
   its rider out of the lists, without stop or stay, while breath lasts.

   That good man of the house whom our Saviour describes in the Gospel,
   knew well that hot and violent servants are wont to outrun their
   master's intention, for his servants presenting themselves unto him to
   go and weed his field in order to root out the cockle: No, said he,
   lest perhaps gathering up the cockle you root up the wheat also
   together with it. [477] It is true, Theotimus, that anger is a servant
   who, being strong, courageous and of great undertakings, does also at
   first a great deal of work, but withal he is so ardent, so hotheaded,
   inconsiderate and impetuous, that he ordinarily does no good things
   without at the same time doing many evil. It is not good husbandry, say
   our country-folk, to keep peacocks in the house; for though they hunt
   spiders and rid the house of them, yet they so spoil the furniture and
   the buildings themselves that their usefulness is not comparable to the
   harm they do. Anger was given by Nature as a help to reason, and is
   employed by grace in the service of zeal, to put in execution its
   designs; yet it is a dangerous help, and not greatly to be desired, for
   if it gets strength it becomes master, overturning the authority of
   reason; and while it does no more than zeal would perform all alone, it
   keeps one in a well-founded fear that waxing strong it may take
   possession of the heart and of zeal, making them slaves to its tyranny,
   like a carefully disposed fire, which in an instant embraces a
   building, and which no one can extinguish. It were an act of despair to
   put foreign auxiliaries into a fortress, who may make themselves the
   strongest.

   Self-love often deceives us and leads us away, gratifying its own
   passions under the name of zeal. Zeal has once made use of anger, and
   now anger in its turn uses the name of zeal, in order to keep its
   shameful disorder covered under this. And mark that I say it makes use
   of the name of zeal; for it can make no use of zeal itself, since it is
   the property of all virtues, but especially of Charity, whereof zeal is
   a dependence, to be so good that none can abuse them.

   A notorious sinner, once went and threw himself at the feet of a good
   and worthy priest, protesting with much submission, that he came to
   find a cure for his disease, that is, to receive the holy absolution of
   his faults. A certain monk called Demophilus, considering that, in his
   opinion, this poor penitent came too nigh the holy altar, fell into so
   violent a fit of anger, that throwing himself upon him, he kicked and
   pushed him thence with his feet, railing at the good priest in an
   outrageous sort, who according to his duty had mildly received this
   poor penitent. And then running up to the altar he took off the holy
   things which were there, and carried them away, lest, as he would have
   men think, the place should have been profaned by the sinner's
   approach. Now having finished this fair exploit of zeal, he stayed not
   yet there, but made a great rejoicing about the matter to the great S.
   Denis the Areopagite in a letter which he wrote about it, to which he
   received an excellent answer, worthy of the apostolical spirit
   wherewith that great disciple of S. Paul was animated. For he made him
   clearly see that his zeal had been at once indiscreet, imprudent and
   impudent; because though the zeal for the honour due unto holy things
   were good and laudable, yet was it practised against all reason,
   without any consideration or judgment, since he had employed kicks,
   outrages, railing and reproaches, in a place, under circumstances, and
   against persons, whom and which he ought to have honoured, loved and
   respected; so that the zeal could not be good, being practised with
   such great disorder. But in this same answer, that great saint recounts
   another admirable example of a great zeal, proceeding from a very good
   soul, which was however spoilt and vitiated by the excess of anger
   which it had stirred up.

   A pagan had led astray and made return to idolatry a Christian of
   Candia, recently converted to the faith. Carpus, a man eminent for
   purity and sanctity of life, who, as is very probable, was the bishop
   of Candia, conceived such an anger at it as he had never before
   entertained, and let himself be so far carried away with this passion,
   that having risen at midnight to pray according to his custom, he
   concluded with himself that it was not reasonable that the wicked men
   should any longer live, with great indignation beseeching the divine
   justice to strike down at once with his thunderbolts these two sinners
   together, the pagan seducer and the Christian seduced. But hear,
   Theotimus, how God corrected the bitterness of the passion which
   carried the poor Carpus beyond himself. First he made him, as another
   S. Stephen, see the heavens open, and our Saviour Jesus Christ seated
   upon a great throne, surrounded with a multitude of angels, who
   attended him in human form; then he saw below, the earth gaping as a
   horrid and vast gulf; and the two erring ones, to whom he had wished so
   much evil, he saw upon the very brink of this precipice, trembling and
   well-nigh paralysed with fear, as being about to fall down it; on the
   one side they were drawn by a multitude of serpents, which rising out
   of the gulf, wrapped themselves about their legs, and with their tails
   gradually moved and provoked them to their fall; on the other side,
   certain men pushed and beat them to make them tumble in, so that they
   seemed on the point of being swallowed up in this abyss. Now consider,
   my Theotimus, the violence of the passion of Carpus: for as he himself
   afterwards recounted to S. Denis, he never thought of contemplating our
   Saviour and the angels, who showed themselves in the heavens, such
   pleasure did he take in seeing below them the frightful distress of
   those two miserable wretches. His only trouble was that they were so
   long perishing, and thereupon he endeavoured himself to precipitate
   them down; and seeing he could not do it quite at once he was angry,
   and began to curse them, until at length, lifting up his eyes to
   heaven, he saw the sweet and most pitiful Saviour, who, moved by an
   extreme pity and compassion at what was happening, arising from his
   throne and descending to the place where the two miserable beings were,
   stretched out to them his helping hand, while the angels also, some on
   one side some on another, caught hold of them to hinder them from
   falling into that dreadful gulf; and, at last the amiable and mild
   Jesus, turning himself to the wrathful Carpus:--Nay, Carpus, said he,
   henceforth wreak your anger on me: for I am ready to suffer once more
   to save men and it would be a joy to me to do so, if it could be
   without sin on man's part: at any rate, think which would be the better
   for thee, to be in that gulf with the serpents, or to live with angels
   who are such great friends of men. Theotimus, the holy man Carpus had
   just reason to enter into zeal concerning these two men, and his zeal
   had but rightly raised his anger against them, but anger being once
   moved left reason and zeal behind, transgressing all the terms and
   limits of holy love and consesequently of zeal, which is its fervour:
   anger had changed the hatred of sin into the hatred of the sinner, and
   most sweet charity into an outrageous cruelty.

   Thus there are persons who think one cannot be very zealous unless one
   is very angry, thinking that unless they spoil all they can manage
   nothing, whereas on the contrary true zeal most rarely makes use of
   anger; for as we never apply the lancet to the sick save when it cannot
   possibly be helped, so holy zeal does not employ anger save in extreme
   necessities.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [477] Matt. xiii. 29.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVI.

   THAT THE EXAMPLE OF CERTAIN SAINTS WHO SEEM TO HAVE EXERCISED THEIR
   ZEAL WITH ANGER, MAKES NOTHING AGAINST THE DOCTRINE OF THE PRECEDING
   CHAPTER.

   It is true, indeed, my friend Theotimus, that Moses, Phinees, Elias,
   Mathathias and many great servants of God made use of anger in the
   exercise of their zeal, on many remarkable occasions, yet note also, I
   pray you, that those were great souls, who could well handle their
   passions and regulate their anger; like that brave captain of the
   Gospel who said to his soldiers: go, and they went, come, and they
   came: [478] but we, who are, all of us, but common little people, have
   no such power over our movements; our horse is not so well broken in,
   that we can make him gallop or stop at our pleasure. Wise and well
   trained hounds run afield or come back according to the huntsman's
   call, but untrained young hounds break away and are disobedient. Great
   saints who have made their passions tractable, mortifying them by the
   exercise of virtue, can also turn about their anger as they like, send
   it out and draw it back as seems good to them; but we, who have
   unbridled passions, quite young, or at least mistaught, cannot let our
   anger go save at peril of great disorder, for being once loose we can
   no longer restrain or regulate it.

   S. Denis speaking to this Demophilus who would have given the name of
   zeal to his rage and fury: "He that would correct others," said he,
   "must first have a care that anger do not turn reason out of the empire
   and dominion which God has given it in the soul, and that it do not
   stir up a revolt, sedition and confusion within ourselves; hence we in
   no sort approve your impetuosities (to which an indiscreet zeal urged
   you), though you should a thousand times recall Phinees and Elias; for
   similar words did not please Jesus Christ, when said to him by his
   disciples, who were not yet made partakers of that sweet and benign
   Spirit." Phinees, Theotimus, seeing a certain unhappy Israelite offend
   God with a Madianitess, slew them both: Elias foretold the death of
   Ochozias, who, indignant at this prediction, sent two captains one
   after another, each with fifty men, to take him: and the man of God
   made fire descend from heaven which devoured them. [479] Now one day
   that our Lord was journeying in Samaria, he sent into a town to take
   his lodging, but the inhabitants knowing that our Lord was a Jew by
   nation, and that he was going to Jerusalem, would not lodge him; which
   S. John and S. James seeing, they said unto our Saviour: Wilt thou that
   we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them? And our Lord
   turning rebuked them, saying: you know not of what spirit you are. The
   Son of man came not to destroy souls but to save them. [480] This it is
   then, Theotimus, that S. Denis would say to Demophilus, who alleged the
   example of Phinees and Elias: for S. John and S. James, who would have
   imitated Phinees and Elias in making fire descend from heaven upon men,
   were reprehended by our Lord, who gave them to know that his spirit and
   his zeal were sweet, mild and gracious, making use of indignation or
   wrath but very rarely, when there was no longer hope of doing good any
   other way. S. Thomas Aquinas, that great star of theology, being sick
   of the disease of which he died, at the Monastery of Fossanuova, of the
   order of Citeaux, the religious besought him to make them a short
   exposition of the Canticle of Canticles in imitation of S. Bernard, and
   he answered them: My dear fathers, give me S. Bernard's spirit and I
   will interpret this divine Canticle like S. Bernard. So verily, if it
   were said to one of us petty, miserable, imperfect and wretched
   Christians:--use anger and indignation in your zeal, as did Phinees,
   Elias, Mathathias, S. Peter and S. Paul: we ought to reply: give us the
   spirit of perfection and pure zeal, with the interior light which those
   great saints had, and we will arm ourselves with anger as they did. It
   is not the fortune of every one to know how to be angry when and as he
   ought.

   Those great saints were immediately inspired by God, and therefore
   might boldly employ their anger without peril; for the same Spirit
   which animated them to these great acts also held the reins of their
   just wrath lest they might transgress the prescribed bounds. Anger
   which is inspired or excited by the Holy Ghost is no longer the anger
   of man, and it is man's wrath that we are to beware of, because, as S.
   James says: The anger of man worketh not the justice of God. [481] And
   indeed, when those great servants of God made use of anger, it was on
   occurrences so solemn and for crimes so excessive, that there was no
   danger that the punishment would exceed the fault.

   Are we, do you think, to take the liberty of abusing sinners, of
   blaming nations, of taking to task and censuring our directors and
   prelates, because S. Paul once calls the Galatians senseless,
   represents to the Candiots their bad inclinations, and withstands to
   the face the glorious S. Peter his superior? Verily every one is not a
   S. Paul, to know how to do these things suitably: but bitter, harsh,
   presumptuous and reviling spirits, following their own inclinations,
   humours, aversions and arrogance, would throw the mantle of zeal over
   their iniquity; and under the name of this sacred fire every man
   permits himself to be burnt up with his own passions. It is zeal for
   the salvation of souls which makes the prelateship desired, if you will
   believe the ambitious man; which makes the monk, who is destined for
   the choir, run hither and thither, as the restless soul himself will
   tell you; which causes all those censures and murmurings against the
   prelates of the Church and temporal princes, if you will give ear to
   that arrogant man. You will hear from him of nothing but zeal, and you
   will see no zeal, but only opprobrious and railing speeches, anger,
   hatred and rancour, disquiet of spirit and of tongue.

   Zeal may be practised in three ways. First in performing great actions
   of justice to repel evil; and this belongs only to those who have the
   public offices of correcting, censuring, and reprehending in quality of
   superiors, such as princes, prelates, magistrates, preachers: but since
   this office is honourable, every one undertakes it, every one will have
   to do with it. Secondly, one may use zeal by doing actions of great
   virtue in order to give good example, by suggesting remedies for evils,
   and exhorting men to apply them, by effecting the good that is opposite
   to the evil which we desire to banish. This belongs to every one, and
   yet few will to do it. Finally, the most excellent use of zeal lies in
   suffering and enduring much to hinder or divert evil, and scarce any
   will have this sort of zeal. A specious zeal is all our ambition; upon
   that, each one willingly spends his talent, never attending to the fact
   that it is not zeal indeed which is thereby sought but glory, the
   satisfaction of our pride, anger, annoyance and other passions.

   Certainly our Saviour's zeal principally appeared in his death upon the
   cross to destroy death and sin in men: in which he was sovereignly
   imitated by that admirable vessel of election and dilection, as the
   great S. Gregory Nazianzen, in golden words, represents him; for
   speaking of this holy Apostle he says: "He fights for all, he prays for
   all, he is passionately jealous about all, he is inflamed for all, yea
   he has dared yet more for his brethren according to the flesh, so that
   if I may dare also to say it, he desires through charity that they may
   have his own place near Our Saviour. O excellence of courage and
   incredible fervour of spirit! He imitates Jesus Christ, who for us was
   made a curse, [482] who took on himself our infirmities and carried our
   diseases. [483] Or, that I may speak a little more soberly, he was the
   first after our Saviour who refused not to suffer and to be reputed
   wicked for their sake." Even so then, Theotimus, as our Saviour was
   whipped, condemned, crucified, as a man devoted, destined and set apart
   to bear and support all the reproaches, ignominies and punishments due
   to all the sinners in the world, and to be a general sacrifice for
   sin,--as he was made an anathema, was cast off and abandoned by his
   eternal Father, so, according to the true doctrine of this great
   Nazianzen, the glorious Apostle S. Paul desired to be filled with
   ignominy, to be crucified, cast off, abandoned and sacrificed for the
   sin of the Jews, that the curse and punishment which they deserved
   might fall upon him; and as our Saviour took upon him the sins of the
   world, and was made a curse, sacrificed for sin and forsaken by his
   Father in such sense that he ceased not ever to be the well-beloved Son
   in whom his Father was well pleased,--so the holy Apostle desired
   indeed to be a curse, and to be separated from his master, to be left
   to the mercy of the reproaches and punishments due unto the Jews, yet
   he never desired to be deprived of charity and the grace of his Lord,
   from which, moreover, nothing could ever separate him; that is to say,
   he desired to be treated as a man cast off by God, but he did not
   desire actually to be cast off and deprived of his grace, for this
   cannot be holily desired. So the heavenly spouse declares, that though
   love is strong as death, which makes a separation between the body and
   soul, zeal, which is an ardent love, is yet stronger, for it resembles
   hell, which separates the soul from the sight of Our Lord; but it is
   never said, nor can be said, that love or zeal was like to sin, which
   alone separates from the grace of God. And indeed how could the ardour
   of love possibly make one desire to be separated from grace, since love
   is grace itself, or at least cannot be without grace. And the zeal of
   the great S. Paul was in some sort practised by the little S. Paul, I
   mean S. Paulinus, who to deliver a slave out of bondage became himself
   a slave, sacrificing his own liberty to bestow it upon his neighbour.

   "O how happy is he," says S. Ambrose, who knows how to discipline
   zeal!" "The devil will easily," says S. Bernard, "delude thy zeal, if
   thou neglect knowledge; therefore let thy zeal be inflamed with
   charity, adorned with knowledge, established in constancy." True zeal
   is the child of charity as being its ardour; wherefore, like to
   charity, it is patient, is kind, envieth not, dealeth not perversely,
   seeketh not her own, is not provoked to anger, rejoiceth in the truth.
   [484] The ardour of true zeal resembles that of the huntsman, being
   diligent, careful, active, industrious, eager in pursuit, but without
   passion, anger or disquiet, for if the huntsman's work were done in
   anger, bad temper and vexation, it would not be so much loved and
   desired. Zeal in like manner has ardours which are extreme, but
   constant, solid, sweet, industrious, equally agreeable and untiring;
   whereas on the contrary, false zeal is turbulent, troubled, insolent,
   arrogant, choleric, transient, equally impetuous and inconstant.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [478] Matt. viii. 9.

   [479] 4 Kings i. 12.

   [480] Luke ix.54.

   [481] James i. 20.

   [482] Gal. iii. 13.

   [483] Matt. viii. 17.

   [484] 1 Cor. xiii.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVII.

   HOW OUR LORD PRACTISED ALL THE MOST EXCELLENT ACTS OF LOVE.

   Having spoken at large of the sacred acts of divine love, I present
   you, that you may more easily and holily preserve the memory of them,
   with a collection or abridgment of them. The charity of Jesus Christ
   presseth us, [485] says the great apostle. Yea truly, Theotimus, it
   forces and carries us away by its in finite sweetness, exercised in the
   whole work of our Redemption, in which appeared the benignity and love
   of God towards men: for what did not this divine lover do in matter of
   love?  1. He loved us with a love of Complacency, for his delights were
   to be with the children of men [486] and to draw man to himself, making
   himself man.  2. He loved us with a love of Benevolence, bestowing his
   own divinity upon man, so that man was God. 3.  He united himself unto
   us by an incomprehensible Union, whereby he adhered to our nature, and
   joined himself so closely, indissolubly and supereminently to it, that
   never was anything so strictly joined and bound to humanity as is now
   the most holy divinity in the person of the Son of God.  4. He flowed
   out into us, and as it were melted his greatness, to bring it to the
   form and figure of our littleness, whence he is styled a source of
   living water, dew and rain of heaven.  5. He loved us to Ecstasy, not
   only because, as S. Denis says, by the excess of his loving goodness he
   goes in a certain manner out of himself, extending his Providence to
   all things and being in all things, but also because he has in a sort
   forsaken and emptied himself, dried up his greatness and glory,
   resigned the throne of his incomprehensible majesty, and, if it be
   lawful so to say, annihilated himself to stoop down to our humanity, to
   fill us with his divinity, to replenish us with his goodness, to raise
   us to his dignity, and bestow upon us the divine being of children of
   God. And he of whom it is so frequently written: I live, saith the
   Lord; could afterwards have said according to his apostle's language: I
   live, now not I, but man liveth in me. To me to live is man, and to die
   for man is gain. My life is hidden with man in God. [487] He who dwelt
   in himself dwells now in us, and he who was living from all eternity in
   the bosom of his Eternal Father becomes mortal in the bosom of his
   temporal Mother; he who lived eternally by his own divine life, lived
   with a human life, and he who from eternity had been only God, shall be
   for all eternity man too: so has the love of man ravished God, and
   drawn him into an ecstasy!  6. Love often led him to admiration, as of
   the Centurion and Chanaanitess.  7. He contemplated the young man who
   had till that hour kept the commandments, and desired to be taught
   perfection.  8. He took a loving quiet in us, yea even with some
   suspension of his senses, in his mother's womb and in his infancy. 9.
   He had wondrous movements of Tenderness towards little children, whom
   he would take in his arms and lovingly fondle; towards Martha and
   Magdalen, towards Lazarus, over whom he wept, as he wept also over the
   city of Jerusalem. 10.  He was animated with an incomparable Zeal,
   which, as S. Denis says, changed into Jealousy, turning away, as much
   as possible, all evil from his beloved human nature, with hazard, yea
   with the price, of his own life; driving away the devil the prince of
   this world, who seemed to be his rival and companion.  11. He had a
   thousand thousand Languors of love; for whence could those divine words
   proceed: I have a baptism, wherewith I am to be baptized: and how am I
   straightened until it be accomplished? [488] The hour in which he was
   baptized in his blood was not yet come, and he languished after it; the
   love which he bore unto us urging him thereunto, that he might by his
   death see us delivered from an eternal death. So he was sad, and
   sweated the blood of distress in the Garden of Olives, not only by
   reason of the exceeding sorrow which his soul felt in the inferior part
   of his reason, but also by reason of the singular love which he bore
   unto us in the superior portion thereof, sorrow causing in him a horror
   of death, and love giving him an extreme desire of the same; so that a
   most fierce combat and a cruel agony took place, between the desire and
   the dread of death, unto a mighty shedding of blood, which streamed
   down upon the earth as from a living spring.

   12. Finally, Theotimus, this divine lover died amongst the flames and
   ardours of love, by reason of the infinite charity which he had towards
   us, and by the force and virtue of love: that is he died in love, by
   love, for love, and of love, for though his cruel torments were
   sufficient to have killed any one, yet could death never make entry
   into his life who keeps the keys of life and death, unless divine love,
   which handles those keys, had opened the gates to death, to let it
   ravage that divine body and despoil it of life. Love was not content to
   have only made him subject to death for us unless it made him dead. It
   was by choice, not by force of torment, that he died. No man taketh my
   life away from me: but I lay it down of myself, and I have power to lay
   it down, and I have power to take it up again. [489] He was offered,
   says Isaias, because it was his own will. [490] And therefore it is not
   said that his spirit went away, forsook him, or separated itself from
   him, but, contrariwise, that he gave up his spirit, breathed it out,
   yielded and commended it into the hands of his eternal Father; so that
   S. Athanasius remarks that he bowed his head to die, that he might
   consent to and bend to death's approach, which otherwise durst not have
   come near him; and crying out with a loud voice he gives up his spirit
   into his Father's hands, to show that as he had strength and breath
   enough not to die, so had he love so great that he could no longer
   live, but would by his death revive those who without it could never
   escape death, nor have the chance of true life. Wherefore our Saviour's
   death was a true sacrifice, and a sacrifice of holocaust, which himself
   offered to his Father for our redemption: for though the pains and
   dolours of his passion were so great and violent that any but he had
   died of them, yet had he never died of them unless he himself had
   pleased, and unless the fire of his infinite charity had consumed his
   life. He was then the sacrificer himself, who offered himself unto his
   Father and immolated himself, dying in love, to love, by love, for
   love, and of love.

   Yet beware of saying, Theotimus, that this amorous death of the Saviour
   took place by manner of rapture, for the object which his charity moved
   him to die for was not love-worthy enough to ravish to itself this
   divine soul, which departed then from his body by way of ecstasy,
   driven and forced on by the abundance and might of love; even as we see
   the myrrh tree send forth its first juice by its mere abundance,
   without squeezing or drawing in any way; according to that which he
   himself said, as we have declared: No man taketh my life away from me
   but I lay it down of myself. O God! Theotimus, what burning coals are
   cast upon all our hearts to inflame us to the exercise of holy love
   towards our all-good Saviour, seeing he has so lovingly practised them
   towards us who are so evil! This charity then of Jesus Christ presseth
   us!

     __________________________________________________________________

   [485] 2 Cor. v. 14.

   [486] Prov. viii. 31.

   [487] Gal. ii. 20.

   [488] Luke xii. 50.

   [489] John x. 18.

   [490] Is. liii. 7.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK XI.

   OF THE

SOVEREIGN AUTHORITY WHICH SACRED LOVE HOLDS OVER ALL THE VIRTUES, ACTIONS AND
PERFECTIONS OF THE SOUL.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   HOW AGREEABLE ALL VIRTUES ARE TO GOD.

   Virtue is of its own nature so amiable, that God favours it wheresoever
   he finds it. The pagans, though they were enemies of his divine
   Majesty, now and then practised certain human and moral virtues, which
   were not by their nature placed above the forces of the reasonable
   spirit. Now you may guess, Theotimus, how small a matter that was: for
   though these virtues made a great show, yet in effect they were of
   little worth, by reason of the lowness of the intention of those who
   practised them. They laboured for scarcely anything but honour, as S.
   Augustine says, or for some other object of light consideration, such
   as the upholding the social good, or from some weak inclination they
   had to good; which inclination, meeting with no contradiction, carried
   them on to trifling acts of virtue--as for example, to mutual courtesy,
   to aid their friends, to live with moderation, not to steal, to serve
   masters faithfully, to pay hirelings' wages. And nevertheless though
   this was so slender, and accompanied with many imperfections, God took
   it in good part from those poor people, and recompensed it largely.

   The midwives whom Pharaoh commanded to kill all the male children of
   the Israelites were without doubt Egyptians and pagans; for in the
   excuse they made for not having executed the king's pleasure, they
   said: The Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian: this would not have
   been to the purpose if they had been Hebrews: and it is not credible
   that Pharaoh would have granted so cruel a commission against the
   Hebrews to Hebrew women, being of the same nation and religion: besides
   Josephus testifies that they were in fact Egyptians. Now, Egyptians and
   pagans as they were, yet they feared to offend God by so barbarous and
   unnatural a cruelty as the massacre of so many little children would
   have been. The divine sweetness was so pleased with this that it built
   their houses, that is to say, made them fruitful in children and in
   temporal riches.

   Nabuchodonosor, King of Babylon, had waged a just war against the city
   of Tyre, which the divine justice willed to chastise, and God signified
   to Ezechiel that in recompense thereof he would deliver up Egypt as a
   prey into the hands of Nabuchodonosor and his army, Because, said God,
   he hath laboured for me. [491] Hence, adds S. Jerome in the commentary,
   we learn that in case the very pagans do some good thing they are not
   left unrewarded by God's judgment. So did Daniel exhort Nabuchodonosor,
   an infidel, to redeem his sins by alms, [492] that is, to ransom
   himself out of the temporal pains due to his sins, which hung over his
   head. Do you see then, Theotimus, how true it is that God makes account
   of virtues, though practised by persons otherwise wicked? If he had not
   approved the mercy of the midwives and the justice of the war of the
   Babylonians, would he have taken care, I pray you, to reward them? And
   if Daniel had not known that the infidelity of Nabuchodonosor would not
   prevent God from being pleased with his alms, why would he have
   counselled him to do them? Indeed the Apostle assures us that pagans
   who have not the law do by nature those things that are of the law.
   [493] And when they do so, who can doubt that they do well, and that
   God makes account of it? Pagans understood that marriage was good and
   necessary, they saw that it was becoming to have their children brought
   up in liberal knowledge, in the love of their country, in the arts of
   civil life, and they did so. Now I leave it to your consideration
   whether this was not grateful unto God, since to this end he had given
   the light of reason and natural instinct.

   Natural reason is a good tree which God has planted in us; the fruits
   which spring from it cannot but be good. They are fruits which in
   comparison with those which spring from grace are indeed of very small
   value, yet still, not of no value, since God has valued them, and for
   them has given temporal rewards. Thus, according to the great S.
   Augustine, he rewarded the moral virtues of the Romans with the grand
   extent and magnificent renown of their empire.

   Sin unquestionably makes the soul sick, and then she cannot do great
   and laborious deeds; yet little ones she can do, for all the actions of
   the sick are not sickly: they still speak, they still see, they still
   hear, they still drink. The soul in sin can do good works, which, being
   natural, are rewarded with natural rewards; being civil, are paid in
   civil and human money, that is, with temporal advantages. The sinner is
   not in the state of the devils, whose wills are so steeped in and
   incorporated with evil that they can will no good at all. No,
   Theotimus; the sinner in this world is not in that state. Here, he is
   in the way between Jerusalem and Jericho, wounded to death but not yet
   dead; for, says the Gospel, he is left half-dead; and as he is
   half-alive so he can do half-living actions. 'Tis true he can neither
   walk, nor rise, nor cry for aid, no, not so much as speak, save only
   languishingly, by reason of the faintness of his heart; yet can he open
   his eyes, stir his fingers, sigh, make some word of complaint:--weak
   actions, and actions in spite of which he would miserably die of his
   wounds, had not the merciful Samaritan poured in the oil and wine, and
   carried him to the inn, where he gave charge that at his cost the man
   should be dressed and looked to. [494]

   Natural reason is deeply wounded, and, as it were, half slain by sin;
   whence, being in such sad condition, it cannot observe all the
   commandments, which, however, it clearly sees to be good: it knows its
   duty but cannot acquit itself thereof; its eyes have more light to
   discover the way than its legs have strength to undertake it.

   The sinner may indeed occasionally observe some of the commandments,
   yea all of them for some short time, so long as no great occasion for
   practising virtues commanded, or violent temptation to commit sin
   forbidden, present itself. But that a sinner should live long in his
   sin without adding to it new ones, is not a thing that can be done but
   by God's special protection, for man's enemies are ardent, active, and
   perpetually striving to cast him down, and when they see that no
   occasion of practising virtues commanded occurs, they excite a thousand
   temptations to make him fall into things forbidden; at which time
   nature without grace cannot save itself from the precipice: for if we
   overcome, God gives us the victory through Jesus Christ, [495] as S.
   Paul says. Watch and pray, that you enter not into temptation. [496] If
   Our Lord had said only watch, we might expect that our own power would
   be sufficient, but when he adds pray, he shows that if he keep not our
   souls in time of temptation, in vain shall they watch who keep them.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [491] Ezech. xxix. 20.

   [492] Dan. iv. 24.

   [493] Rom. ii. 14.

   [494] Luke x.

   [495] 1 Cor. xv. 57.

   [496] Matt. xxvi. 41.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   THAT DIVINE LOVE MAKES THE VIRTUES IMMEASURABLY MORE AGREEABLE TO GOD
   THAN THEY ARE OF THEIR OWN NATURE.

   The masters of husbandry admire the gracious innocence and purity of
   little strawberries, because, though they lie upon the ground and are
   continually crept over by serpents, lizards, and other venomous beasts,
   they yet receive no impression of poison, nor are infected with any
   malign quality; a sign that they have no affinity with poison. Such
   then are human virtues, Theotimus; which, though they may be in a heart
   that is low, earthly, and largely occupied by sin, yet are not infected
   with its malice, being of a nature so noble and innocent that it cannot
   be corrupted by the society of iniquity, according to what even
   Aristotle has said:--that virtue is a habit which no one can make ill
   use of. And though the virtues which are so good in themselves are not
   rewarded with an eternal recompense when they are practised by infidels
   or by such as are not in the state of grace, this is not surprising,
   because the sinful heart from whence they proceed is not capable of an
   eternal good (being, as it is, turned away from God), and because no
   one can receive the celestial inheritance belonging to the Son of God,
   but such as are in him, and are adoptive brothers of his; to say
   nothing of this reason, that the covenant by which God promises heaven
   refers to such only as are in his grace, while the virtues of sinners
   have no worth nor value save that of their nature, which, consequently,
   cannot raise them to the merit of supernatural rewards. Indeed these
   are for this very cause called supernatural, that nature and all that
   belongs thereto can neither give nor merit them.

   But the virtues which are found in the friends of God, though they be
   only moral and natural in themselves, are yet ennobled, and raised to
   the dignity of being holy works, by reason of the excellence of the
   heart which produces them. It is one of the properties of friendship to
   make the friend and all that is good and honest in him dear to us:
   friendship pours out its grace upon all the actions of him who is
   loved, however little ground of favour there may be; the bitternesses
   of friends are sweets, and the sweets of enemies are bitter. All the
   virtuous actions of a heart at friends with God are dedicated to God,
   for the heart that has given itself, how has it not given all that
   depends on itself? He that gives the tree without reserve, gives he not
   also the leaves, flowers and fruit? The just shall flourish like the
   palm-tree: he shall grow up like the cedar of Libanus. They that are
   planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of the
   house of our God. [497] Since the just man is planted in the house of
   God, his leaves, his flowers and his fruit grow therein, and are
   dedicated to the service of His Majesty. He shall be like a tree which
   is planted near the running waters, which shall bring forth its fruit
   in due season. And his leaf shall not fall of: and all whatsoever he
   shall do shall prosper. [498] Not only the fruits of charity, and the
   flowers of the works which it ordains, but even its very leaves, that
   is, the moral and natural virtues, draw a special power and efficacy
   from the love of the heart which produces them. If you are grafting a
   rose tree, and put a grain of musk in the cleft of the stock, all the
   roses that spring from it will smell of musk: cleave then your heart by
   holy penitence, and put the love of God in the cleft; then engraft on
   it what virtue you please, and the works which spring from it will be
   all perfumed with sanctity, without need of any further attention.

   When the Spartans had heard an excellent sentence from the mouth of
   some wicked man, they never thought it right to receive it till it was
   first pronounced by the mouth of some good man: so that to make it
   worthy of acceptance they did no more than get it uttered again by a
   virtuous man. If you desire to make the human and moral virtue of
   Epictetus, Socrates or Demades become holy, cause them to be practised
   by a truly Christian soul, that is, by one which has the love of God.
   So God first had respect to the good Abel, and then to his offerings,
   these taking their favour and worth in the sight of God from the
   goodness and piety of him who offered them. Oh the sovereign goodness
   of this great God, which so favours its lovers that it cherishes their
   least little actions, so long as they have the slightest degree of
   goodness, and excellently ennobles them, giving them the title and
   quality of holy! Ah! this is in consideration of his beloved Son, whose
   adopted children he would honour, sanctifying all there is of good in
   them, their bones, the hairs of their head, their garments, their
   graves, yea, down to the very shadow [499] of their bodies; their
   faith, hope, love, religion, yea even their social life, their
   courtesy, the affability of their hearts.

   Therefore my beloved brethren, saith the Apostle, be ye steadfast and
   immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your
   labour is not in vain in the Lord. [500] And mark, Theotimus, that
   every virtuous work is to be esteemed the "work of the Lord," yea
   though it were even practised by an infidel; for his divine Majesty
   said unto Ezechiel that Nabuchodonosor and his army had laboured for
   him, [501] because he had waged a lawful and just war against the
   Tyrians: sufficiently showing thereby that the justice of the unjust is
   God's, and tends and belongs to him, though the unjust who work that
   justice are neither his, nor tend nor belong to him: for as the great
   prince and prophet Job, though of pagan extraction and an inhabitant of
   the land of Hus, did for all that belong to God, so moral virtues,
   though they proceed from a sinful heart, do none the less belong to
   God. But when these same virtues are found in a truly Christian heart,
   that is in a heart endowed with holy love, then they not only belong to
   God, but they are not "in vain in the Lord," being rendered fruitful
   and precious in the eyes of his goodness. "Add charity to a man," says
   S. Augustine, "and everything profits; take charity from him, and what
   remains profits him no longer." And: To them that love God all things
   work together unto good, [502] says the Apostle.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [497] Ps. xci. 13, 14.

   [498] Ps. i. 3.

   [499] Acts v. 15.

   [500] 1 Cor. iv. 58.

   [501] Ezech. xxix. 20.

   [502] Rom. viii. 28.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   THAT THERE ARE SOME VIRTUES WHICH DIVINE LOVE RAISES TO A HIGHER DEGREE
   OF EXCELLENCE THAN OTHERS.

   But there are some virtues which by reason of their natural alliance
   and correspondence with charity are also much more capable of receiving
   the precious influence of sacred love, and consequently the
   communication of the dignity and worth of it. Such are faith and hope,
   which, together with charity, have an immediate reference to God; and
   religion, and penitence, and devotion, which are employed to the honour
   of his Divine Majesty. For these virtues, of their own nature, have so
   close a relation to God, and are so susceptible of the impressions of
   heavenly love, that to make them participate in its sanctity they need
   only to be with it, that is, in a heart which loves God. So, to make
   grapes taste of olives it is but necessary to plant the vine amongst
   the olives; for by their neighbourhood alone, without touching one
   another at all, these plants will mutually interchange their savours
   and properties, so great an inclination and so strict an affinity is
   there of one to the other.

   Truly all flowers, except those of the tree called Sad (triste), and a
   few others that are monsters in Nature, all, I say, rejoice, expand and
   put on beauty at the sight of the sun, and the vital heat which they
   receive from his rays; but all yellow flowers, and especially that
   which the Greeks term Heliotropium, and we sunflower, not only receive
   gladness and pleasure from his presence, but by an affectionate turning
   movement follow the attractions of his rays, keeping him in sight, and
   turning themselves towards him, from his rising to his setting. So all
   virtues receive a new lustre and an excellent dignity from the presence
   of holy love, but faith, hope, the fear of God, piety, penance, and all
   the other virtues which of their own nature particularly tend to God
   and to his honour, not only receive the impression of divine love
   whereby they are raised to a great value, but they wholly incline
   towards it, associating themselves with it, following and serving it on
   all occasions. For in fine, my dear Theotimus, the holy Word attributes
   a certain saving, sanctifying and glorifying property and force to
   faith, to hope, to piety, to the fear of God, to penance: which clearly
   shows that those virtues are of great price, and that being practised
   by a heart which is in charity they become more excellent, fruitful and
   holy than the others, which of their own nature have not so great an
   affinity with sacred love. And he who cries out: If I should have all
   faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, it
   profiteth me nothing, [503] clearly shows that with charity this faith
   would greatly profit him. Charity then is a virtue beyond comparison,
   which not only adorns the heart in which it is, but by its mere
   presence also blesses and sanctifies all the virtues which it meets
   there, perfuming and scenting them with its celestial odour, by means
   of which they are made of great value in the sight of God; which,
   however, it does far more excellently in faith, in hope and in other
   virtues, which of themselves naturally tend to piety.

   Wherefore, Theotimus, of all virtuous actions we ought most carefully
   to practise those of religion and reverence towards divine things,
   those of faith, of hope and of the most holy fear of God, taking
   occasion often to speak of heavenly things, thinking of and sighing
   after eternity, frequenting churches and sacred services, reading
   spiritual books, observing the ceremonies of the Christian religion:
   for sacred love is fed according to its heart's desire in these
   exercises, and in greater abundance spreads its graces and properties
   over them than it does over the actions of those virtues which are
   purely human; as the lovely rainbow makes all the plants upon which it
   lights odoriferous, but the aspalathus incomparably more so than all
   the rest.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [503] 1 Cor. xiii. 2.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   THAT DIVINE LOVE MORE EXCELLENTLY SANCTIFIES THE VIRTUES WHEN THEY ARE
   PRACTISED BY ITS ORDER AND COMMANDMENT.

   The fair Rachel had children by Jacob in two ways. She counted as hers
   the children of her handmaid Bala, and afterwards she had children of
   her own--namely, Joseph and the beloved Benjamin.

   Now I say to you, my dear Theotimus, that charity and sacred love, a
   hundred times more fair than Rachel, ceaselessly desires to produce
   holy operations. She calls the operations of the other virtues her
   offspring because they are produced by her order, love being the master
   of the heart, and consequently of all the works of the other virtues
   done by its consent. But, further, this divine love has two acts which
   are her own proper issue and of her extraction. Of these the one is
   effective love, which, as another Joseph, using the plenitude of royal
   authority, subjects and reduces all the people--her faculties, powers,
   passions and affections--to God's will, that it may be loved, obeyed
   and served above all things, by this means putting the great celestial
   commandment in execution: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
   heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength.
   The other is affective or affectionate love, which, as a little
   Benjamin, is exceedingly delicate, tender, pleasing and amiable, but in
   this more happy than Benjamin, that charity its mother dies not in its
   bringing forth, but, so to say, gains a new life, by the sweetness she
   feels in it.

   Thus then, Theotimus, the virtuous actions of the children of God all
   belong to charity; some of them because she produces them of her own
   nature; others because she sanctifies them by her quickening presence;
   and finally others, by the authority and command which she exercises
   over the other virtues, whence she makes them spring. And these last,
   as indeed they are not so eminent in dignity as the actions which
   properly and immediately issue from charity, yet incomparably surpass
   those which take their whole sanctity from the mere presence and
   society of charity.

   A great general of an army having won some important battle, will
   without doubt have all the honour of the victory, and not unreasonably;
   for he himself will have fought in the very front of the army, doing
   many great feats of arms, and for the rest he will have arrayed his
   troops, and ordained and commanded all that was done: so that he is
   considered to have done all, either by himself, fighting with his own
   hand, or by his direction, commanding others. And even if some friendly
   troops come unexpectedly and fall in with the army, yet the general is
   not deprived of the honour of their work, for though they have not
   received his commands, yet they have served him and followed his
   intentions. Nevertheless, although we attribute the glory as a whole to
   him, we do not fail to give each part of his army due credit for its
   own share; we say that the vanguard did this, the main body that, the
   rearguard the other; the French behaved thus, the Italians thus, the
   Germans and the Spaniards thus: yea we praise the private individuals
   who have distinguished themselves in the battle. So, my dear Theotimus,
   amongst all the virtues, the glory of our salvation and victory over
   hell is ascribed to divine love, which, as prince and general of the
   whole army of virtues, does all the exploits by which we gain the
   triumph. For sacred love has his proper actions which issue and proceed
   from himself, by which he does wonders of arms against our enemy, and
   withal he ranges, commands and orders the actions of other virtues,
   which are therefore, termed acts commanded or ordained by love. And if,
   at last, some virtues perform their operations without his order, yet
   if they assist his intention, which is God's honour, he will still
   acknowledge them to be his own. Nevertheless, though we say in general,
   after the divine Apostle, that Charity beareth all things, believeth
   all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things, [504] in a word,
   that it does all, yet we distribute in particular the praise of the
   salvation of the Blessed to other virtues, according as they excelled
   in each one; for we say some were saved by faith, others by alms-deeds,
   others by temperance, prayer, humility, hope, chastity, because the
   acts of these virtues have appeared with lustre in these saints. Yet
   again after we have extolled these particular virtues we must
   reciprocally refer all their honour to divine love, which to every one
   gives all the sanctity which they have. For what else does the glorious
   Apostle mean when he teaches that charity is kind, is patient, that it
   believes all, hopes all, bears all, save that charity ordains and
   commands patience to be patient, hope to hope, faith to believe. And
   truly, Theotimus, at the same time the Apostle intimates that love is
   the soul and life of all the virtues, as though he would say: patience
   is not patient enough, nor faith faithful enough, nor hope confident
   enough, nor mildness sweet enough, unless love animate and quicken
   them. The same thing this same vessel of election gives us to
   understand when he says, that nothing profits him and he is nothing
   without charity; for it is as though he had said, that without love a
   man is not patient, nor mild, nor constant, nor faithful, nor hopeful,
   in the way a servant of God should be, which is the true and desirable
   being of man.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [504] 1 Cor. xiii. 7.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   HOW LOVE SPREADS ITS EXCELLENCE OVER THE OTHER VIRTUES, PERFECTING
   THEIR PARTICULAR EXCELLENCE.

   I Have seen, says Pliny, a tree at Tivoli grafted in all the fashions
   that one can graft, and bearing all sorts of fruit; for upon one branch
   there were cherries, on another nuts, on others grapes, figs,
   pomegranates, apples, and, in a word, all kinds of fruit. This was
   wonderful, Theotimus, yet more so is it to see, in Christian man,
   heavenly love, with all virtues grafted thereon; in such sort that, as
   one might have said of this tree that it was a cherry tree, an apple, a
   nut, a pomegranate, so may one say of charity that it is patient, mild,
   valiant, just, or rather that it is patience, mildness and justice
   itself.

   But the poor tree of Tivoli did not live long, as the same Pliny
   records, for this variety of productions dried up its essential sap, so
   that it withered away and died; whereas, on the contrary, charity is
   fortified and invigorated, so as to produce abundance of fruit in the
   exercise of all the virtues; yea, as our holy Fathers have observed, it
   is insatiable in its desires of bringing forth fruit, and never ceases
   to urge the heart wherein it dwells, as Rachel did her husband, saying:
   Give me children, otherwise I shall die. [505]

   Now the fruits of grafted trees always follow the graft, for if the
   graft be apple it will bear apples, if cherry it will bear cherries;
   yet so that these fruits always taste of the stock. In like manner,
   Theotimus, our acts take their name and species from the particular
   virtues whence they spring, but they draw the taste of their sanctity
   from holy charity, which is the root and source of all sanctity in man.
   And as the stock communicates its taste to all the fruits which the
   grafts produce, yet so that each fruit preserves the natural property
   of the graft whence it sprung, even so charity pours out in such sort
   her excellence and dignity upon the acts of other virtues, that she
   does not deprive them of the particular worth and goodness which they
   have by their own natural condition.

   All flowers lose their lustre and grace amidst the darkness of night,
   but, in the morning, the sun, which makes them again visible and
   agreeable, does not however make their beauties and their graces equal,
   and its brightness, though equally spread over them all, yet makes them
   unequally bright and glorious, according as they are more or less
   susceptible of the effects of its splendour. And the light of the sun,
   equal as it is on the violet and the rose, yet will never make that so
   fair as this, or make a daisy as lovely as a lily. However, if the sun
   should shine very clearly upon the violet, and very mistily and faintly
   upon the rose, then without doubt it would make the violet more fair to
   see than the rose. So, my Theotimus, if one with an equal charity
   should suffer death by martyrdom, and another hunger by fasting, who
   does not see that the value of this fasting will not therefore be equal
   to that of martyrdom? No, Theotimus, for who would dare to affirm that
   martyrdom is not more excellent in itself than fasting? And as it is
   more excellent, and as superadded charity does not take away but
   perfects its excellence, charity will consequently leave to it the
   advantage which it naturally had over fasting. Surely no man of good
   sense will equal nuptial chastity to virginity, nor the good use of
   riches to the entire abnegation of the same. Who again would dare to
   say, that charity accompanying these virtues deprives them of their
   properties and privileges, since it is not a virtue which destroys and
   impoverishes, but betters, quickens and enriches all the good it finds
   in the souls which it rules. Yea, so far is charity from bereaving the
   other virtues of their natural pre-eminences and dignities, that, on
   the contrary, having this quality of perfecting the perfections which
   it meets with, it more greatly perfects where it finds greater
   perfection. It acts like sugar, which so preserves and so seasons
   fruits with its sweetness that, sweetening them all, it leaves them
   dissimilar in taste and sweetness, according as their natural taste and
   sweetness are dissimilar, nor does it ever make peaches and nut-fruits
   as sweet or agreeable as apricots and mirabels.

   Still it is true that if love be ardent, powerful and excellent in a
   heart, it will also more enrich and perfect all the virtuous works
   which may proceed from it. One may suffer death and fire for God
   without charity, as S. Paul supposes, [506] and as I explain elsewhere:
   by better reason may one suffer them with little charity. Now I say,
   Theotimus, that it may come to pass that a very small virtue may be of
   greater value in a soul where sacred love fervently reigns, than
   martyrdom itself in a soul where love is languishing, feeble and dull.
   Thus the little virtues of our Blessed Lady, of S. John, of other great
   saints, were of better worth before God than the most exalted of many
   inferior saints; as many of the slight movements of love in the
   seraphim are more inflamed than the greatest in angels of the last
   order; or as the first essays of the nightingale are incomparably more
   melodious than the song of the best-trained finch.

   Pireicus towards the end of his days painted only miniatures and
   trivial subjects, such as barbers' or cobblers' shops, asses laden with
   herbs, and similar petty matters; which he did, as Pliny conjectures,
   to lessen his great renown, whence in the end he came to be called a
   painter of rubbish; and yet the greatness of his art did so appear in
   his small works that they were sold at a higher rate than the great
   pieces of others. Even so, Theotimus, the little simplicities,
   abjections and humiliations in which the great saints so delighted, in
   order to hide themselves and put their hearts under shelter against
   vainglory, having been practised with a great excellence of the art and
   of the ardour of heavenly love, were found more grateful in the sight
   of God than the large and illustrious works of many others which were
   performed with little charity and devotion.

   The sacred spouse wounds her beloved with a single one of her hairs,
   [507] of which he makes such great account that he compares them to the
   flocks of the goats of Galaad; and he has no sooner commended the eyes
   of his devout loving one, which are the most noble parts of the face,
   than presently he praises her hair, which is the most frail, worthless
   and mean; to teach us that in a soul captivated by divine love,
   exercises that seem very trifling are yet highly agreeable to his
   Divine Majesty.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [505] Gen. xxx. 1.

   [506] 1 Cor. xiii. 3.

   [507] Cant. iv. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   OF THE EXCELLENT VALUE WHICH SACRED LOVE GIVES TO THE ACTIONS WHICH
   ISSUE FROM ITSELF AND TO THOSE WHICH PROCEED FROM THE OTHER VIRTUES.

   But you will say to me, what is this value, I pray you, which holy love
   gives to our actions? Oh! Theotimus, verily I should not have the
   assurance to say it, if the Holy Ghost himself had not declared it in
   most express terms by the great Apostle S. Paul, who speaks thus: What
   is at present momentary and light of our tribulation, worketh for us
   above measure exceedingly an eternal weight of glory. [508] For God's
   sake, let us ponder these words. Our tribulations, which are so light
   that they pass in a moment, work for us the solid and stable weight of
   glory. I beseech you, behold these wonders! Tribulation produces glory,
   lightness gives weight, and moments work eternity. But what is it that
   can give such power to these fleeting moments and light tribulations?
   Red purple, or fine crimson violet is a most precious and royal cloth,
   yet not by reason of the wool but of the colour. The works of good
   Christians are of such worth that heaven is given us for them; but,
   Theotimus, it is not because they proceed from us and are the wool of
   our hearts, but because they are dyed with the blood of the Son of
   God,--I mean because our Saviour sanctifies our works by the merits of
   his blood. The vine-sprig, united and joined to the stock, brings forth
   fruit not by its own power but in virtue of the stock. Now we are
   united by charity unto our Redeemer as members to their head, and hence
   it is that our fruits and good works, drawing their worth from him,
   merit life everlasting. Aaron's rod was dry, and incapable by itself of
   bringing forth fruit; but as soon as the name of that great high priest
   was written upon it, in one night it brought out its leaves, its
   flowers and its fruits. [509] We of ourselves are withered branches,
   unprofitable, fruitless, not sufficient to think anything of ourselves,
   as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is from God, who also hath made us
   fit ministers, [510] and able to do his will, and therefore as soon as
   by holy love the name of our Saviour, the great bishop of our souls, is
   engraven in our hearts, we begin to bear delicious fruits unto life
   everlasting. And as seeds which of themselves would only bring forth
   insipid melons, would bring forth sugared and musked ones, if they were
   steeped in sugared or mucked water; so our souls, which of themselves
   are not able to produce one single good thought towards God's service,
   being steeped in sacred love by the Holy Ghost who dwells within us,
   produce sacred actions, which tend towards and carry us to immortal
   glory. Our works as proceeding from ourselves are but frail reeds; but
   these reeds become golden by charity, and with the same we measure the
   heavenly Jerusalem, which is given us by that measure: [511] for as
   well to men as to angels, glory is distributed according to charity and
   its actions. So that the measure used by men and that used by angels is
   the same, [512] and God has rendered and will render to every man
   according to his works, [513] as all the divine Scripture teaches us,
   assuring us of the felicity and eternal joys of heaven in reward of the
   labours and good works which we have performed on earth.

   A magnificent reward, and one that savours of the Master's greatness
   whom we serve. He indeed, Theotimus, if so he had pleased, might most
   justly have exacted our obedience and service without proposing unto us
   any salary or hire at all, because we are his by a thousand most
   legitimate titles, and because we can do nothing of worth save what is
   in him, by him, for him, and from him. Yet his goodness has not
   disposed thus, but, in consideration of his Son, our Saviour, has
   willed to treat with us at a set price, receiving us for hire, and
   engaging himself by promise to pay us, according to our works, eternal
   wages. Nor is it that our service can either be necessary or profitable
   unto him, for when we shall have accomplished all his commands, we are
   yet to avow with most humble truth or most true humility that indeed we
   are most unprofitable servants, and utterly useless to our Master, who
   by reason of his essential superabundance of riches can have no profit
   by us; but, converting all our works to our own advantage and good, he
   ordains that we shall serve him with as little profit to him as there
   is much to us, who by such small labours gain such great rewards.

   He was not bound to pay us for our service if he had not given his
   promise to do so. But do not think, Theotimus, that he would so
   manifest his goodness in this promise as to forget to glorify his
   wisdom; yea, on the contrary, he most exactly observed the rules of
   equity, mingling seemliness (bienseance), with liberality in an
   admirable manner; for though our works are indeed very small and in no
   wise comparable with glory by their matter, yet in regard to their
   quality they are very proportionate thereunto, by reason of the Holy
   Ghost, who, by charity dwelling in our hearts, works in us with so
   exquisite an art, that the same works which are wholly ours are still
   more wholly his, since he produces them in us as we again produce them
   in him, he does them for us as we do them for him, he operates them
   with us as we co-operate with him.

   Now the Holy Ghost dwells in us if we be living members of Jesus
   Christ, who therefore said unto his disciples: He that abideth in me,
   and I in him, the same beareth much fruit; [514] and this, Theotimus,
   is because he that abides in him is made partaker of his divine Spirit,
   which is in the midst of man's heart as a fountain of living water
   springing up unto life everlasting. [515] So the holy oil which was
   poured upon our Saviour as upon the head of the Church militant and
   triumphant, spreads itself over the society of the Blessed, who as the
   sacred beard of this heavenly Master are continually attached to his
   glorious face, and runs down upon the company of the faithful, who as
   garments are joined and united by love to his Divine Majesty; and both
   companies, as being composed of brethren of the same family, have
   reason to cry out: Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren
   to dwell together in unity: like the precious ointment on the head,
   that ran down upon the beard, the beard of Aaron, which ran down to the
   skirt of his garments. [516]

   Our works, therefore, as a little grain of mustard-seed, are in no sort
   comparable in greatness to the tree of glory which they produce, yet
   they have the vigour and virtue to produce it, because they proceed
   from the Holy Spirit, who by an admirable infusion of his grace into
   our hearts makes our works his, and yet withal leaves them our own,
   since we are members of a head of which he is the Spirit, and ingrafted
   in a tree whereof he is the divine sap. And as he thus acts in our
   works, and we after a certain manner operate or co-operate in his
   action, he leaves us for our part all the merit and profit of our
   services and good works, and we again leave him all the honour and
   praise thereof, acknowledging that the commencement, the progress, and
   the end of all the good we do depends on his mercy, by which he has
   come unto us and prevented us, has come into us and assisted us, has
   come with us and conducted us, finishing what he had begun. But, O God!
   Theotimus, how merciful is his goodness to us in thus distributing his
   bounty! We give him the glory of our praise, forsooth! and he gives us
   the glory of possessing him. In fine, by these light and passing
   labours we obtain goods which endure for all eternity. Amen.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [508] 2 Cor. iv. 17.

   [509] Numb. xvii. 8.

   [510] 2 Cor. iii. 5.

   [511] Apoc. xxi. 15.

   [512] Apoc. xxi. 17.

   [513] Apoc. xxii. 12.

   [514] John xv. 5.

   [515] John iv. 14.

   [516] Ps. cxxxii. 1, 2.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   THAT PERFECT VIRTUES ARE NEVER ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER.

   It is said that the heart is the first part of a man which receives
   life by the infusion of the soul, and the eye the last, as,
   contrariwise, in a natural death the eye begins first to die, and the
   heart is the last. Now when the heart begins to live, before the other
   parts are animated, life is certainly very feeble, frail and imperfect,
   but ever as it establishes itself more thoroughly in the rest of the
   body, it is also more vigorous in each part and particularly in the
   heart, and we see that when life is injured in any one of the members
   it is weakened in all the rest. If a man's foot or arm be hurt all the
   body is troubled, excited, disturbed and affected; if the stomach is
   disordered, the eyes, the voice and the whole countenance show the
   effects of it, so great is the sympathy amongst the organs of man's
   natural life.

   All the virtues are not acquired together, in an instant, but one after
   another, in proportion as reason, which is like the soul of our heart,
   takes possession, first of one passion then of another, to moderate and
   govern them: and ordinarily this life of our soul begins in the heart
   of our passions, which is love, and spreading itself over all the rest
   it quickens at last the very understanding by contemplation; as, on the
   contrary, moral or spiritual death makes its entry into the soul by the
   want of reflection [517] --death enters by the windows, [518] says the
   sacred text--and its last effect is to destroy good love, which once
   perishing, all our moral life is dead in us. So then, although we may
   perhaps possess some virtues without others, yet are they but
   languishing, imperfect and weak virtues, since reason, which is the
   life of our soul, is never satisfied nor at ease in a soul unless it
   occupy and possess all the faculties and passions; and when it is
   aggrieved and wounded in some one of our passions or affections, all
   the rest lose their force and vigour, and grow exceedingly weak.

   You see, Theotimus, all the virtues are virtues by the proportion or
   conformity they have with reason, and an action cannot be called
   virtuous if it proceed not from the affection which the heart bears to
   the excellence and beauty of reason. Now if the love of reason possess
   and animate a soul, it will be obedient to reason in all occurrences,
   and consequently will practise all the virtues. If Jacob loved Rachel
   in consideration of her being Laban's daughter, why did he despise Lia
   who was not only the daughter, but the eldest daughter, of the same
   Laban? But because he loved Rachel by reason of her beauty, he could
   never equally love poor Lia, though a fruitful and wise maid, because
   to his mind she was not so fair. He who loves one virtue for the love
   of the reason and comeliness which shine in it, will love all the
   virtues, since he will find the same motive in them all, and he will
   love each of them more or less, as reason shall appear in them more or
   less resplendent. He who loves liberality and not chastity, shows
   sufficiently that he loves not liberality for reason's sake, because
   reason is still more radiant in chastity, and where the cause is more
   strong the effects ought also to be more strong. It is, therefore, an
   evident sign that such a heart is not moved to liberality by the motive
   and consideration of reason; whence it follows that this liberality
   which seemed to be virtue is but an appearance of it, since it proceeds
   not from reason, which is the true motive of virtues, but from some
   other and foreign motive. It is sufficient for a child to be born in
   marriage to bear in the world the name, the arms, and the titles of his
   mother's husband, but to have his blood and nature he must not only be
   born in the marriage but of the marriage. Actions have the name, arms
   and badges of the virtues, because being born of a heart endowed with
   reason we presume them to be reasonable, yet they have neither the
   substance nor vigour of virtue when they proceed from a foreign and
   illegitimate motive, and not from reason. It may happen then, that a
   man may have some virtues and lack others; but they will either be
   virtues newly springing and as yet tender, like flowers in blossom; or
   else perishing and dying virtues, like fading flowers: for, in
   conclusion, virtues cannot have their true integrity and sufficiency
   unless they be all together, as all philosophy and divinity assure us.
   What prudence, I pray you, Theotimus, can an intemperate, unjust and
   cowardly man have, since he makes choice of vice and forsakes virtue?
   And how can one be just without being prudent, strong, and temperate,
   since justice is no other thing than a perpetual, strong and constant
   will to render to every one his own, and since the science by which
   right is done is called jurisprudence, and since, to give each one his
   own, we must live wisely and moderately, and hinder the disorders of
   intemperance in ourselves so as to give ourselves what belongs to us?
   And the word virtue, does it not signify a force and vigour belonging
   to the soul as a quality, even as we say that herbs and precious stones
   have such and such a virtue or property?

   But is not prudence itself imprudent in an intemperate man? Fortitude,
   without prudence, justice and temperance, is not fortitude, but folly;
   and justice is unjust in the weak man who dares not do it, in the
   intemperate man who permits himself to be carried away with passion,
   and in the imprudent man who is not able to discern between the right
   and the wrong. Justice is not justice unless it be strong, prudent and
   temperate; nor is prudence prudence unless it be temperate, just and
   strong; nor fortitude fortitude unless it be just, prudent and
   temperate; nor temperance temperance unless it be prudent, strong and
   just. In fine, a virtue is not perfect virtue, unless it be accompanied
   by all the rest.

   It is true, Theotimus, that one cannot exercise all the virtues at
   once, because the occasions are not all presented at once; yea, there
   are virtues which some of God's greatest saints had never occasion to
   practise: for S. Paul, the first hermit, for example, what occasion
   could he have to exercise the pardoning of injuries, affability,
   magnificence, and mildness? Nevertheless, such souls stand so affected
   to the rectitude of reason, that though they have not all the virtues
   in effect, yet they have them all in affection, being ready and
   prepared to follow and obey reason in all occurences, without exception
   or reservation.

   There are certain inclinations which are esteemed virtues and are not
   so, but favours and advantages of nature. How many are there who are
   naturally sober, mild, silent, chaste and modest? Now all these seem to
   be virtues, and yet have no more the merit thereof than bad
   inclinations are blameworthy before we have given free and voluntary
   consent to such natural dispositions. It is no virtue to be by nature a
   man of little meat, yet to abstain by choice is a virtue. It is no
   virtue to be silent by nature, though it is a virtue to bridle one's
   tongue by reason. Many consider they have the virtues as long as they
   do not practise the contrary vices. One that has never been assaulted
   may truly boast that he was never a runaway, yet he has no ground to
   boast of his valour. He that has never been afflicted may boast of not
   being impatient, but not of being patient. In like manner, some think
   they have virtues who have only good inclinations, and as those
   inclinations are some without others, they suppose that virtues may be
   so too.

   In truth the great S. Augustine shows, in an epistle which he wrote to
   S. Jerome, that we may have some sort of virtue without having the
   rest, but that we cannot have perfect ones without having them all;
   whilst, as for vices, we may have some without having others, yea, it
   is even impossible to have them all together: so that it does not
   follow that he who has lost all the virtues has by consequence all the
   vices, since almost every virtue has two opposite vices, which are not
   only contrary to the virtue but also to one another. He who has
   forfeited valour by rashness cannot at the same time be taxed with
   cowardice; nor can he who has lost liberality by prodigality, be at the
   same time reproached with niggardliness. Catiline, says S. Augustine,
   was sober, vigilant, patient in suffering cold, heat and hunger; so
   that both himself and his accomplices deemed him marvellously constant;
   but this constancy wanted prudence, since it made choice of bad instead
   of good; it was not temperate, for it gave the bridle to repulsive
   uncleanness; it was not just, since he conspired against his country:
   it was not then constancy but obstinacy, which to deceive fools bore
   the name of constancy.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [517] L'inconsideration--i.e., failure of the spiritual eye (Tr.)

   [518] Jer. ix. 21.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   HOW CHARITY COMPREHENDS ALL THE VIRTUES.

   There flowed a river out of the place of delights to water Paradise,
   and thence it was divided into four heads. [519] Now, in man there is a
   place of delights, whence God makes the river of reason and natural
   light stream out to water all the paradise of our heart, and this river
   branches out into four heads; that is, it makes four streams according
   to the four regions of the soul. For  1°. Over what is called the
   practical understanding, that is to say the part of the intelligence
   which discerns the actions we should do or avoid, natural light spreads
   prudence, which inclines our mind wisely to judge of the evil that we
   are to avoid and drive away, and of the good we are to do and pursue.
   2°. Over our will it makes justice stream out, which is a continual and
   firm will to render to every one his own.  3°. Over the concupiscible
   appetite it makes temperance flow, moderating the passions which are
   therein.  4°. Over the irascible appetite or anger it sends out
   fortitude, which stays and controls all the motions of anger. Now these
   four rivers, thus separated, afterwards divide themselves into several
   others, in order that all human actions may be duly fashioned to
   natural honesty and felicity. But besides all this, God, to enrich
   Christians with a special favour, makes spring up on the very top of
   the superior part of their spirit a supernatural fountain which is
   called grace, and which comprehends indeed faith and hope, yet consists
   in charity. It purifies the soul from all sins, and then adorns and
   embellishes it with a most delightful beauty; and finally spreads its
   waters over all the faculties and operations thereof, to give the
   understanding a celestial prudence, the will a holy justice, the
   concupiscible appetite a sacred temperance, and the irascible appetite
   a devout fortitude, to the end that man's whole heart may tend to the
   supernatural honesty and felicity which consist in union with God. And
   if these four streams and rivers of charity meet with any one of the
   four natural virtues in the soul, they bring it to their obedience,
   mingling themselves therewith to perfect it, as perfumed water perfects
   natural water when they are mixed together. But if holy charity, spread
   out in this manner, find not the natural virtues in the soul, then it
   alone does all their operations as occasion requires.

   Thus heavenly love finding certain virtues in S. Paul, S. Ambrose, S.
   Denis, S. Pachomius, shed upon them an agreeable brightness, reducing
   them all to its service. But in Magdalen, in S. Mary of Egypt, the Good
   Thief, and a hundred other such penitents who had been great offenders,
   divine love, finding no virtue, did the office and work of all the
   virtues, making itself patient, gentle, humble, and liberal in them. We
   sow great variety of seeds in gardens, and cover them, as if burying
   them, till the sun's greater heat makes them rise, and, as one would
   say, resuscitates them, when they produce their leaves and their
   flowers, with new seeds each one in its kind; so that one sole heat
   from heaven causes all the diversity of these productions, by means of
   the seed which it finds hidden in the bosom of the earth. Verily, my
   Theotimus, God has sown in our hearts the seeds of all virtues, which,
   however, are so covered with our imperfections and weakness that they
   do not appear, or appear very slightly, till the vital heat of holy
   love comes to quicken and resuscitate them, producing by them the
   actions of all virtues. So that as the manna contained in itself the
   variety of the tastes of all meats, and left a relish thereof in the
   mouths of the Israelites, even so, heavenly love comprehends in itself
   the diversity of the perfections of all the virtues in so excellent and
   sublime a manner, that it produces all their actions in time and place
   according to the occasions. Josue indeed valiantly defeated God's
   enemies by his good handling of the armies which were under his charge;
   but Samson defeated them yet more gloriously, references, who by his
   own hand slew them by thousands with the jawbone of an ass. Josue by
   his command and good order making use of the valour of his troops did
   wonders, but Samson by his own force alone wrought miracles. Josue had
   the strength of many soldiers under him, but Samson had it in him, and
   could alone perform as much as Josue with many soldiers. Holy love is
   excellent in both these ways, for finding some virtue in a soul (and
   ordinarily it finds at least faith, hope and penitence) it animates,
   commands, and happily employs them in God's service, and for the rest
   of the virtues which it finds not, it does their work itself, having
   more strength by itself than they have all together.

   The great Apostle not only says that Charity gives us patience,
   kindness, constancy, simplicity, but he says that charity is patient,
   is kind, [520] is constant: and it is the property of the supreme
   virtues amongst angels and men, not only to order the inferior virtues
   to work, but also to be able themselves to do what they command others.
   The bishop distributes the charges of all the ecclesiastical
   functions:--to open the Church, to read therein, to exorcise, preach,
   baptize, sacrifice, give communion and absolve; and he himself can do,
   and does, all this, having in himself an eminent virtue, which
   comprehends all the inferior virtues. So S. Thomas, on the strength of
   S. Paul's assurance that charity is patient, kind, strong, says:
   "Charity does and accomplishes the work of all the virtues." And S.
   Ambrose, writing to Demetrias, calls patience and the rest of the
   virtues members of charity. And the great S. Augustine says that the
   love of God comprehends all the virtues and does all their operations
   in us. These are his words: "What is said about virtue being divided
   into four (he means the four cardinal virtues) is said in my opinion by
   reason of the different affections which proceed from love. So that I
   do not hesitate to define those four virtues thus: Temperance is a love
   which gives itself entirely unto God; Fortitude is a love which
   willingly supports all things for God's sake: Justice is a love [521]
   which serves God only, and therefore disposes justly of all that is
   subject to man: Prudence is a love that makes choice of things proper
   to unite itself unto God, and rejects such things as are contrary to
   it." He therefore that has charity has his soul invested with a fair
   wedding garment, which, as that of Joseph, is wrought with the variety
   of all the virtues: or rather he has a perfection which contains the
   virtue of all perfections and the perfection of all virtues. And
   therefore charity is patient, is kind; [522] she is not envious but
   bounteous; she is guilty of no levities but is prudent; she is not
   puffed up with pride, but is humble; she is not ambitious or
   disdainful, but amiable and affable; she is not eager to exact that
   which belongs unto her, but free and condescending; she is not
   irritable but peaceable; she thinketh no evil but is meek; she doth not
   rejoice in evil but in the truth, and with the truth she beareth all
   things; she easily believeth all the good that is said to her without
   any obstinacy, contention or distrust; she hopeth all good things for
   her neighbour without ever losing the hope of procuring his salvation;
   she endureth all things, expecting without disquiet that which is
   promised her; and in conclusion, charity is that pure fire-tried gold,
   which our Saviour counselled the Bishop of Laodicea to buy, [523] which
   contains the virtue of all things, which can do all, and which does
   all.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [519] Gen. ii. 10.

   [520] 1 Cor. xiii. 4.

   [521] The French has force, but it is clearly and error; S. Augustine's
   word is amor, as his argument requires. Se De Morib. Eccl. c. xv. [Tr.]

   [522] 1 Cor. xiii.

   [523] Apoc. iii. 18.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   THAT THE VIRTUES HAVE THEIR PERFECTION FROM DIVINE LOVE.

   Charity is then the bond of perfection, [524] since in it all the
   perfections of the soul are contained and assembled, and since without
   it, not only can one not have the whole array of virtues, but one
   cannot even have the perfection of any virtue. Without the cement and
   mortar which fasten the stones and walls, the whole edifice goes to
   rack; were it not for the nerves, muscles and sinews, the whole body
   would be undone; and without charity the virtues can never sustain one
   another. Our Saviour ever joins the fulfilling of the commandments to
   charity. He that hath my commandments, says he, and keepeth them, he it
   is that loveth me; he that loveth me not keepeth not my words; If any
   one love me, he will keep my word: [525] which the disciple whom our
   Saviour loved repeating, says: He that keepeth his word, in him, in
   very deed, the charity of God is perfected; [526] and this is the
   charity of God, that we keep his commandments. [527] Now he who should
   have all virtues, would keep all the commandments: for he that had the
   virtue of religion would keep the first three commandments; he that had
   piety would observe the fourth; he that had the virtue of mildness and
   gentleness would observe the fifth; by the virtue of chastity one would
   observe the sixth; by liberality one would avoid the breach of the
   seventh; by truth one would effect the eighth; by frugality and purity
   one would observe the ninth and tenth. And if without charity we cannot
   keep the commandments, much less can we without it have all the
   virtues.

   True it is, one may have some virtue, and live some small time without
   offending God, though wanting in divine love: but even as we sometimes
   see uprooted trees produce something, but imperfectly, and only for a
   short time, so a heart separated from charity, may indeed bring forth
   some acts of virtue but not for long.

   All virtues separated from charity are very imperfect, since they are
   not able without it to arrive at their end, which is to make us happy.
   Bees in their birth are little grubs and worms, without feet, without
   wings, and without shape; but in course of time they change, and become
   little flies; afterwards waxing strong, and being come to their growth,
   they are said to be formed, finished and perfect bees, because they
   have all that is wanted for flying and for making honey. The virtues
   have their beginning, their progress, and their perfection; and I do
   not deny that without charity they may be born and even grow; but that
   they should come to their perfection, and bear the name of formed,
   fashioned, and accomplished virtues, that depends on charity, which
   gives them the strength to fly in God, and to collect from his mercy
   the honey of true merit, and of the sanctification of the heart in
   which they are found.

   Charity is amongst the virtues, as the sun amongst the stars; she
   distributes to all their lustre and beauty. Faith, hope, fear and
   penitence ordinarily go before her into the soul to prepare her
   lodging; and, upon her arrival, they with all the train of virtues obey
   and wait upon her, and she with her presence animates, adorns and
   quickens them all.

   The other virtues can in turn aid and stimulate one another in their
   works and exercises: for who knows not that chastity requires and
   excites sobriety, and that obedience moves us to liberality, prayer,
   and humility? Now by this communication which they have amongst
   themselves they participate in one another's perfections: for chastity
   kept by obedience has a double dignity, its own and that of obedience;
   yea, it has even more of the dignity of obedience than of its own: for,
   as Aristotle says that he who stole for the sake of sensuality sinned
   rather against purity than against honesty, because all his affections
   tended to impurity, and he only used theft as a passage to it; even so
   he who keeps chastity through obedience is more obedient than chaste,
   since he makes chastity serve obedience. Nevertheless, from the mixture
   of chastity and obedience a perfect and accomplished virtue cannot
   issue, since they both want the last perfection, which is love; so that
   if it were possible that all the virtues were put in one man, and that
   he wanted only charity, this union of virtues would indeed be a most
   perfect and complete body in all its parts, such as Adam's was when God
   with his omnipotent hand formed it of the slime of the earth: yet would
   it be a body wanting motion, life and grace, till God should breathe
   into it the breath of life, [528] that is, holy charity, without which
   nothing profits us.

   For the rest, the perfection of divine love is so sovereign that it
   perfects all the virtues, and can receive no perfection from them, no
   not from obedience itself, which is the one most able to give
   perfection to the rest: for although love be commanded, and although in
   loving we exercise obedience, yet still love draws not its perfection
   from obedience, but from the goodness of him whom it loves; love not
   being excellent because it is obedient, but because it loves an
   excellent good. Truly in loving we obey, as also in obeying we love;
   but if this obedience be so excellently loveable, it is because it
   tends to the excellence of love; nor does its excellence consist in
   this, that loving we obey, but in this, that obeying we love. So that
   even as God is as much the last end as the first beginning of all that
   is good, so love, which is the source of every good affection, is
   likewise its last end and perfection.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [524] Col. iii. 14.

   [525] John xiv. 23, 23, 24.

   [526] 1 John ii. 5.

   [527] 1 John v. 3.

   [528] Gen. ii. 7.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   A DIGRESSION UPON THE IMPERFECTION OF THE VIRTUES OF THE PAGANS.

   Those ancient sages of the world long ago made glorious discourses in
   honour of the moral virtues, yea, even in behalf of religion: but what
   Plutarch observes of the Stoics suits still better the rest of the
   pagans. We see ships, says he, which bear the grandest titles: some are
   called the Victory, others the Valour, others the Sun; yet, for all
   that, they remain dependent on the winds and waves: so the Stoics boast
   of being exempt from passions, without fear, without grief, without
   anger, unchanging and unchangeable, yet are they in fact subject to
   trouble, disquiet, impetuosity, and other follies.

   I earnestly ask you, Theotimus, what virtues could those people have,
   who voluntarily, and of set purpose, overthrew all the laws of
   religion. Seneca wrote a book against superstitions, wherein he very
   freely reprehends pagan impiety. "Now this freedom," says S. Augustine,
   "was found in his writings, but not in his life; since he even advised
   that a man should reject superstition in his heart but should practise
   it in his actions; for these are his words: Which superstitions the
   sage shall observe, as being commanded by the law, not as being
   grateful to the gods." How could they be virtuous, who, as S. Augustine
   relates, were of opinion that the wise man ought to kill himself, when
   he could not or would not longer endure the calamities of this life,
   and yet were not willing to acknowledge that calamities were miseries
   or miseries calamities, but maintained that the wise man was ever
   fortunate and his life happy? "O what a happy life," says S. Augustine,
   "to avoid which one has even recourse to death? If it be happy, why do
   you not remain in it?" Wherefore, that Stoic and commander who, for
   having killed himself in Utica to avoid a calamity which he considered
   it unworthy to survive, has been so praised by the worldly-minded, did
   this action with so little true virtue that, as S. Augustine says, he
   did not exhibit a high courage that wished to avoid dishonour, but a
   weak soul which had not the strength of mind to await adversity. For if
   he reputed it a dishonourable thing to live under victorious Cæsar, why
   did he tell others to trust to the clemency of Cæsar? Why did he not
   advise his son to die with him, if death were better and more
   honourable than life? He killed himself, then, either because he envied
   Cæsar the glory he would have gained by sparing his life, or because he
   feared the shame of living under a victor whom he hated: wherein he may
   have the praise of having a stout, perhaps a great heart, but not of
   being a wise, virtuous and constant soul. The cruelty which is
   exercised without emotion and in cold blood, is the most cruel of all.
   It is the same with despair; for the most slow, deliberate, and
   determined is the least excusable and the most desperate. And as for
   Lucretia (that we may not forget the valour of the less courageous
   sex), either she was chaste under the violence of the son of Tarquin,
   or she was not. If Lucretia were not chaste, why is her chastity so
   praised? If she were chaste and innocent on that occasion, was not
   Lucretia wicked to murder the innocent Lucretia? If unchaste why so
   much praised, if honest why was she slain? But she dreaded reproach and
   shame on the part of such as might have thought that the treatment she
   had suffered through violence while she was in life had been undergone
   voluntarily, if after it she had remained in life. She feared to have
   been considered an accomplice in the sin, if what was done to her
   wickedly were borne by her patiently. But are we then to oppress the
   innocent, and kill the just in order to avoid the shame and reproach
   which depends upon the opinion of men? Must we maintain honour at the
   cost of virtue, and reputation at the hazard of justice? Such were the
   virtues of the most virtuous pagans towards God and towards themselves.

   As to the virtues that refer to our neighbour, they trod under foot,
   and most shamefully, by their very laws, the chief of them, which is
   piety. [529] For Aristotle, the greatest intellect amongst them,
   pronounced this horrible and most pitiless sentence. "As to the
   question of exposing, that is, abandoning children, or of bringing them
   up, let this be the law: that nothing is to be kept that is deprived of
   any member. And as to other children, if the laws and customs of the
   city do not allow the abandoning of them, and the number of any one's
   children so increase on him that he has more by half than he can keep,
   he is to be beforehand, and procure abortion." Seneca, so praised as a
   wise man, says: "We kill monsters:--and if our children are defective,
   weakly, imperfect, or monstrous, we cast them off, and abandon them."
   So that it is not without cause that Tertullian reproaches the Romans
   with exposing their children to the mercy of the waters, to cold, to
   famine, to dogs; and this not by the force of poverty; for as he says,
   the very chief men and magistrates practised this cruelty. Good God!
   Theotimus, what kind of virtuous men were these? And what was their
   wisdom, who taught a wisdom so cruel and brutal? Alas! said the great
   Apostle, professing themselves to be wise they became fools, and their
   foolish heart was darkened, [530] and delivered up to a reprobate
   sense. Ah! what horrible counsels that great philosopher Aristotle
   gives! and how greatly is he reproached for them by Tertullian and the
   great S. Ambrose.

   Indeed if the pagans practised some virtues, it was generally for the
   sake of worldly glory, and consequently they had nothing of virtue but
   the action, and not the motive and intention: now virtue is not true
   unless it has a right intention. "Human cupidity has produced the
   fortitude of pagans," says the Council of Orange, "and divine charity
   that of Christians." "The virtues of pagans," says S. Augustine, "were
   not true, but only resembled true ones, because they were not done for
   a proper end, but for transitory ends. Fabricius shall be less punished
   than Cataline, not because the former was good, but because the latter
   was worse; not because Fabricius had any true virtues, but because he
   was not so far off true virtues. So that the virtue of the pagans will,
   at the day of judgment, be a kind of defence to them; not such as that
   they can be saved thereby, but such as that they may be less
   condemned." One vice was neutralized by another amongst the pagans,
   vices making room for one another, without leaving space for any
   virtue: and for this one vice of vain glory they repressed avarice and
   many other vices. Yea sometimes through vanity, they despised vanity;
   whereupon one of the furthest removed from vanity, treading under his
   feet the rich bed of Plato,--What are you doing, Diogenes, said Plato
   to him? I trample underfoot Plato's pride, said he; it is true, replied
   Plato, but you trample it with another pride. Whether or no Seneca was
   vain may be gathered from his last words; for the end crowns the work,
   and the last hour judges all: what vanity, I pray you!--being at the
   point of death, he said to his friends that he had not been able until
   then sufficiently to thank them, and that therefore he would leave them
   a legacy of what he had most desirable and most beautiful; which, if
   they faithfully kept it, would bring them great praises; adding that
   this magnificent legacy was nothing else but the picture of his life.
   Do you see, Theotimus, how offensive was the vanity of the last breath
   of this man? It was not love of honest virtue, but love of honour which
   pricked forward those wise men of this world to the exercise of virtue;
   and similarly their virtues were as different from true virtues, as the
   love of right and of merit is different from the love of reward. Those
   who serve their prince for their own interest, ordinarily perform their
   duty with more eagerness, ardour, and outward show; but those who serve
   for love, do it more nobly, generously, and therefore more worthily.

   Carbuncles and rubies are called by the Greeks two contrary names, for
   they name them pyropos and apyropos: that is, fiery and fireless, or
   inflamed and flameless. They call them fiery, burning, red coals, or
   carbuncles, because in light and splendour they resemble fire: but they
   call them fireless, or, so to say, uninflammable, because not only is
   their shining without any heat, but they are not even capable of heat,
   there being no fire that can heat them. So did our ancient Fathers term
   the pagan virtues, virtues and non-virtues both together; virtues,
   because they had the lustre and appearance of them, non-virtues,
   because they not only lacked the vital heat of the love of God, which
   alone could perfect them, but they were not even capable of it, because
   they were in persons without faith. "There being in those times," says
   S. Augustine, "two Romans great in virtue, Cæsar and Cato, Cato's
   virtue came much nearer to true virtue than Cæsar's did." And having
   said somewhere that the philosophers who were destitute of true piety
   had shone with the light of virtue, he unsays it in his book of
   Retractations, considering this to be too great praise for virtues so
   imperfect as those of the pagans were: which in truth are like to
   shining fire-worms, which only shine during the night, and day being
   come lose their light. For, even so, those pagan virtues are only
   virtues in comparison with vices, but in comparison with the virtues of
   true Christians, are quite unworthy of the name of virtues.

   Yet whereas they contain some good, they may be compared to worm-eaten
   apples; for the colour of these, and such little substance as if left
   them, are as good as those of entire virtues, but the worm of vanity is
   in the core, and spoils them; and therefore he who would use them must
   separate the good from the bad. I grant, Theotimus, there was some
   firmness of heart in Cato, and that this firmness was praiseworthy, but
   he who would rightfully appeal to his example, must do so in a just and
   right matter, not inflicting death on himself, but suffering it when
   true virtue requires; not for the vanity of glory, but for the glory of
   truth: as was the case with our martyrs, who, with invincible hearts,
   performed so many miracles of constancy and resolution, that those of
   Cato, an Horatius, a Seneca, a Lucretia, an Arria, deserve no
   consideration in comparison with them. Witness a Laurence, a Vincent, a
   Vitalis, an Erasmus, a Eugenius, a Sebastian, an Agatha, an Agnes, a
   Catharine, a Perpetua, a Felicitas, a Symphorosa, a Natalia, and a
   thousand others, who make me ever wonder at the admirers of pagan
   virtues; not so much because they unreasonably admire the imperfect
   virtues of the pagans, as because they do not admire the most perfect
   virtues of Christians, virtues a hundred times more worthy of
   admiration, and alone worthy of imitation.


     __________________________________________________________________

   [529] That is, the mutual love of parents and children--pietas (Tr.)

   [530] Rom. i. 22, 21.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   HOW HUMAN ACTIONS ARE WITHOUT WORTH WHEN THEY ARE DONE WITHOUT DIVINE
   LOVE.

   The great friend of God, Abraham, had by Sara his chief wife a most
   dear only son, Isaac, who also was his sole heir: and though he had
   Ismael by Agar, and several other children by Cetura, who were wives of
   a servile and inferior condition, yet he bestowed upon these only
   certain presents and legacies whereby to put them off and disinherit
   them, because not being acknowledged by his chief wife, they could not
   succeed him: now they were not acknowledged, because, with regard to
   the children of Cetura, they were all born after Sara's decease; and as
   for Ismael, though his mother Agar had at first acted by the authority
   of Sara her mistress, yet afterwards she despised her mistress, and
   would not allow Sara's rights over the child. Now, Theotimus, it is
   only the children, that is the acts, of most holy charity, and the
   children or acts which the other virtues conceive and bring forth under
   her commandment and direction, or at least under the wings and favour
   of her presence, which are heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ.
   [531] But when the moral virtues, or even the supernatural virtues,
   produce their actions in the absence of charity, as they do amongst
   schismatics, according to S. Augustine, and sometimes amongst bad
   Catholics, they are of no value towards Paradise, not even alms-giving,
   though it should lead us to distribute all our goods to the poor, nor
   yet martyrdom, though we should deliver our body to the flames to be
   burnt. No, Theotimus, without charity, says the Apostle, all this
   profiteth nothing; as we show more amply elsewhere. Further, when in
   the production of moral virtue the will proves disobedient to her
   mistress, which is charity (as when by pride, vanity, temporal
   interest, or some other bad motive, virtues are turned from their own
   nature), then those actions are driven out and banished from Abraham's
   house and Sara's society, that is, they are deprived of the fruit and
   of the privileges of charity, and consequently are left without worth
   or merit. For those actions, thus infected by a bad intention, are in
   fact more vicious than virtuous; they have virtue only on their
   outside; their interior belongs to vice, which serves them for a
   motive; witness the fastings, offerings, and other actions of the
   Pharisee.

   But finally, besides all this, as the Israelites lived peaceably in
   Egypt during the life of Joseph and of Levi, and directly after the
   death of Levi were tyrannically reduced to slavery--whence arose that
   proverb of the Jews: One of the brothers being deceased, the others are
   oppressed: [as is related in the great Chronology of the Hebrews,
   published by the learned Archbishop of Aix, Gilbert Genebrard, whom I
   name for honour and with consolation, having been his disciple, though
   an unworthy one, when he was Royal Reader at Paris, and was explaining
   the Canticle of Canticles]--so the merits and fruits, as well of moral
   as of Christian virtues, most sweetly and tranquilly subsist in the
   soul while sacred love lives and reigns therein; but as soon as divine
   love dies, all the merits and fruits of other virtues die at once.
   These are the works which divines call killed (mortifiées), because,
   having been born alive under the protection of charity, and, like
   Ismael, in the family of Abraham, they afterwards lose life and the
   right of inheritance by the disobedience and rebellion of the human
   will, which is their mother.

   Alas! Theotimus, what an evil! If the just man turn himself away from
   his justice, and do iniquity according to all the abominations which
   the wicked man useth to work, shall he live? All his justices which he
   hath done shall not be remembered: in the prevarication by which he
   hath prevaricated, and in the sin which he hath committed, in them he
   shall die, says Our Lord in Ezechiel. [532] So that mortal sin ruins
   all the merit of virtues: because, as for those which are performed
   while sin reigns in the soul, they are born so dead that they are for
   ever useless towards eternal bliss; and as for those which were
   performed before the sin was committed, that is, while sacred love
   lived in the soul, their value and merit perish and die as soon as sin
   comes, not being able to preserve their life after the death of charity
   which had given it to them. The lake which profane authors commonly
   call Asphaltites, and sacred authors the Dead Sea, has so heavy a curse
   upon it, that nothing that is put into it can live: when the fish of
   the Jordan come near it they die, unless they speedily return against
   the stream; the trees upon its shore produce nothing that lives, and
   although their fruits are in appearance and outward show like the
   fruits of other places, yet when gathered they are found to be only
   skins and rinds full of ashes, which are blown away by the wind:--a
   sign of the infamous sins, in punishment of which, this country, which
   contained four populous cities, was of old converted into an abyss of
   corruption and infection: and nothing, methinks, could better represent
   the evilness of sin than this abominable lake, which had its origin
   from the most execrable crime human flesh can commit. Sin, therefore,
   as a dead and mortal sea, kills all that comes near it; nothing has
   life of all that is born in the soul which sin possesses, or of all
   which grows round about. Alas! Theotimus, nothing. For sin is not only
   a lead work, but is moreover so infectious and pestilential, that the
   most excellent virtues of the sinful soul produce no action of life:
   and although the acts of the sinner have oftentimes a great resemblance
   to those of the just man, yet are they in reality but rinds filled with
   wind and dust, regarded, indeed, by the divine goodness, and even
   rewarded with temporal presents, which are bestowed upon them as upon
   the children of servants; but rinds which neither are nor can be of so
   agreeable a relish to the divine justice as to be rewarded with eternal
   reward. They perish on the trees, and cannot be preserved in the hand
   of God, because they are void of true worth, as is said in the
   Apocalypse to the Bishop of Sardis, who was considered to be a living
   tree by reason of divers virtues which he practised, and yet was dead,
   [533] because he was in sin; his virtues were not true living fruits,
   but dead rinds and pleasing only to the eye, not savoury apples good
   for food. So that we may all utter this true saying, in imitation of
   the holy apostle: Without charity I am nothing, nothing profiteth me;
   and that of St. Augustine: "Put charity in a heart and everything
   profits, take charity away and nothing profits." I mean that nothing
   profits for eternal life, for as we say elsewhere, the virtuous works
   of sinners are not useless for temporal life. But, my dear Theotimus,
   what doth it profit a man, if he gain the whole world temporally and
   suffer the loss of his soul [534] eternally.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [531] Rom. viii. 17.

   [532] xviii. 24

   [533] Apoc. iii. 1.

   [534] Matth. xvi. 26.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   HOW HOLY LOVE RETURNING INTO THE SOUL, BRINGS BACK TO LIFE ALL THE
   WORKS WHICH SIN HAD DESTROYED.

   The works then of a sinner, while he is deprived of holy love, are not
   profitable to eternal life, and therefore they are called dead works:
   on the contrary the good works of the just man are said to be living,
   inasmuch as divine love animates and quickens them with its life. But
   if afterwards they lose their life and worth by sin, they are said to
   be works in death (amorties), extinguished, or killed, but not dead
   works, especially with regard to the elect. For as our Saviour speaking
   of the little Talitha, the daughter of Jairus, said she was not dead,
   but slept only, [535] because, being about to be raised to life, her
   death would be of such short duration that it would resemble sleep
   rather than a true death; so the works of the just man (and especially
   of the elect) which the commission of sin makes to die, are not called
   dead works but only deadlike, killed, stupefied or put into a trance,
   because upon the approaching return of holy love, they will, or at
   least can, soon revive and return to life again. The return of sin
   deprives the heart and all its works of life: the return of grace
   restores life to the heart and all its works. A sharp winter makes all
   the plants of the earth die down, so that if it always lasted, they
   also would always continue in this state of death: sin, that most sad
   and dreadful winter of the soul, kills all the holy works which it
   finds therein, and if it always continued, never would anything recover
   either life or vigour. But as at the return of the fair spring, not
   only do the new seeds which are sown under the favour of this beautiful
   and fertile season germinate and agreeably bring forth their plants,
   each one in its kind, but also the old plants, which the rigour of the
   past winter had bitten, withered, and made die down, grow green and
   vigorous, and take up again their strength and their life:--so sin
   being blotted out, and the grace of divine love returning into the
   soul,--not only do the new affections which the return of this sacred
   spring brings into the soul blossom and bring forth ample merits and
   blessings; but the works also that were dried up and withered by the
   rigour of the winter of past sins, delivered from their mortal enemy,
   resume their strength, grow vigorous, and, as if risen from the dead,
   flourish anew, and bring forth fruit of merits for eternal life. Such
   is the omnipotence of heavenly love, or the love of heavenly
   omnipotence. When the wicked turneth himself away from his wickedness,
   which he hath wrought, and doth judgment and justice, he shall save his
   soul alive. Be converted and do penance for all your iniquities; and
   iniquity shall not be your ruin, [536] says the Lord Almighty. And what
   means--iniquity shall not be your ruin, but that the ruin which it made
   shall be repaired? So, besides a thousand endearments which the
   prodigal son received from his father, he was re-established, even with
   advantage, in all his privileges, and in all the graces, favours and
   dignities which he had lost. And Job, that innocent image of a penitent
   sinner, in the end received twice as much as he had before. [537] In
   truth the most holy Council of Trent desires that we should encourage
   penitents who have returned to the sacred love of the eternal God, in
   these words of the Apostle: Abound in every good work, knowing that
   your labour is not in vain in the Lord. [538] For God is not unjust,
   that he should forget your work and the love which you have shewn in
   his name. [539] God then does not forget the works of those who having
   lost love by sin recover it by penance. Now God forgets works when they
   lose their merit and sanctity by sin committed, and he remembers them
   when they return to life and vigour by the presence of holy love. So
   much so, that for the faithful to be rewarded for their good works, as
   well by the increase of grace and future glory, as by the actual
   enjoyment of eternal life, it is not necessary that they should never
   relapse into sin, but it is enough, according to the Sacred Council,
   that they depart this life in the grace of God and charity.

   God has promised an eternal reward to the works of a just man. But if
   the just man turn himself away from his justice by sin, God will no
   more remember his justices and good works which he hath done. [540] But
   yet if this poor fallen man afterwards rises and returns into God's
   grace by penance, God will no longer remember his sin: and if he do not
   remember his sin, he will then remember the former good works, and the
   reward which he had promised them; because sin, which alone had blotted
   them out of the divine memory, is totally effaced, destroyed and
   annihilated. So that then the justice of God obliges his mercy, or
   rather the mercy of God obliges his justice, to regard anew the former
   good works, even as though he had never forgotten them; otherwise the
   holy penitent would never have dared to say to his master: Restore unto
   me the joy of thy salvation, and strengthen me with a perfect spirit.
   [541] For, as you see, he not only demands a newness of heart and
   spirit, but he expects to have the joy given back to him which sin had
   bereft him of. Now this joy is nothing but the wine of heavenly love,
   which cheers the heart of man. [542]

   It is not with sin in this matter as with the works of charity. For the
   works of the just man are not effaced, destroyed or annihilated by the
   commission of sin, they are only forgotten; but the sin of the wicked
   is not only forgotten, but also blotted out, cleansed away, abolished
   and annihilated by holy penance. Wherefore the sin that is committed by
   the just man, does not cause the sin that was once pardoned to live
   again, because it was entirely annihilated: but when love returns into
   the penitent soul, it makes her former good works return to life again,
   because they were not abolished but only forgotten. And this oblivion
   of the good works of the just who have forsaken their justice and
   charity consists in this, that they are made unprofitable to us so long
   as sin makes us incapable of eternal life, which is their fruit; and
   therefore as soon as by the return of charity we are put back in the
   ranks of God's children, and consequently made capable of immortal
   glory, God recalls to mind our good works of old, and they again become
   fruitful. It were not reasonable that sin should have as much power
   against charity as charity has against sin; for sin proceeds from our
   infirmity, charity proceeds from God's power. If sin abound in malice
   to ruin us, grace superabounds to restore us; and God's mercy, by which
   he blots out sin, is continually exalted and becomes gloriously
   triumphant over the rigour of the judgment, [543] by which God had
   forgotten the good works which went before sin. So in the corporal
   cures which our Saviour wrought by miracles he not only restored
   health, but moreover added new blessings, making the cure far excel the
   disease, so bountiful is he to man.

   I never saw, read, or heard, that wasps, gadflies, flies, and such
   little noxious insects when once dead could come to life and rise
   again, but that the dear bees, those virtuous insects, can live again,
   every one says, and I have often read it. It is said (these are Pliny's
   words) that if one keep the dead bodies of drowned honey-bees all
   winter indoors, and expose them to the sunbeams the following spring,
   covered over with ashes of the fig tree, they will live again and be as
   good as ever. That iniquities and sinful works can return to life,
   after they have once been drowned and abolished by penance, truly, my
   Theotimus, never did the Scripture, nor, as far as I know, any
   theologian, aver it: yea the contrary is authorized by holy Writ, and
   by the common consent of all Doctors. But that good works, which, like
   sweet bees, compound the honey of merit, being drowned in sin, can
   afterwards regain life, when, covered with the ashes of penance, they
   are exposed to the sun of grace and charity, is held and clearly taught
   by all theologians: nor are we to doubt but that they become profitable
   and fruitful as before. When Nabuzardan destroyed Jerusalem, and Israel
   was led into captivity, the holy fire of the altar was hidden in a
   well, where it was turned into mud, but this mud being drawn out of the
   well and exposed to the sun after the return from captivity,--the dead
   fire kindled again, and the mud was turned into flames. [544] When the
   just man becomes a slave to sin, all the good works which he had done
   are miserably forgotten and turned into mud, but being delivered out of
   captivity, when by penance he returns into the grace of heavenly
   charity, his former good works are drawn out of the well of oblivion,
   and touched with the rays of heavenly mercy they return to life, and
   are converted into as clear flames as ever, to be replaced on the
   sacred altar of the divine approbation, and to have their original
   dignity, their first price, and their first value.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [535] Marc. v. 41.

   [536] Ezech. viii. 27, 30.

   [537] Job. xlii. 10.

   [538] 1 Cor. xv. 58.

   [539] Hebr. vi. 10.

   [540] Ezech. xviii. 24.

   [541] Ps. l. 14.

   [542] Ps. ciii. 15.

   [543] Rom. v. 20; James ii. 13.

   [544] 2 Mac. i. 19.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   HOW WE ARE TO REDUCE ALL THE EXERCISE OF THE VIRTUES, AND ALL OUR
   ACTIONS TO HOLY LOVE.

   Brute beasts, being unable to know the end of their actions, tend
   indeed towards their end, but do not aim at it: for to aim at a thing,
   is to tend towards it by intention, before tending towards it in
   action. They cast, as it were, their actions towards their end, but
   they have no forecast, simply following their instinct, without
   election or intention. But man is in such sort master over his human
   and reasonable actions, that he does them all for some end, and can
   direct them to one particular end, or several ends as he pleases: for
   he can change the natural end of an action;--as when he swears in order
   to deceive another, whereas the end of an oath is, on the contrary, to
   hinder deceit. He can also add another end to the natural end of an
   action;--as when, besides the intention of succouring the poor to which
   almsgiving tends, he adds the intention of inducing the poor man to do
   the like.

   Now sometimes we add a less perfect end than is that of our action,
   sometimes we add an end of equal or like perfection, sometimes again an
   end that is more high and eminent. For besides helping a needy man, to
   which almsgiving specially tends, one may propose.  1°. to gain his
   friendship;  2°. to edify one's neighbour; and  3°. to please God.
   There are three differing ends, whereof the first is lower, the second
   not much better, and the third much more excellent than the ordinary
   end of almsgiving. So that, as you see, we have power to give different
   perfections to our actions, according to the variety of motives, ends
   and intentions which we have in doing them.

   Be good exchangers, [545] says our Saviour. Let us be very careful
   then, Theotimus, not to change the motives and ends of our actions
   except to profit and advantage; and to do nothing in this matter save
   with good order and reason. Now, look at that man who enters on some
   office for the public service or to acquire honour: if his design be
   rather to honour himself than to serve the commonwealth, or if he be
   equally desirous of both, he is wrong, and does not escape being an
   ambitious man; for he overthrows the order of reason, in either
   preferring or equalizing his own interests to the public good. But if,
   proposing as his principal end the public service, he is very glad also
   at the same time to advance the honour of his family, truly one cannot
   blame him, because his designs are not only honest, but also well
   ordered. Another communicates at Easter, in order to escape the
   ill-word of his neighbours, and to obey God: no one doubts that he does
   well. But if he communicate to avoid blame as much as, or more than, to
   obey God, who again can doubt that he acts unreasonably; equalizing or
   preferring human respect to the obedience which he owes to God. I may
   fast in Lent, either from charity in order to please God; or from
   obedience, because it is a precept of the Church; or from sobriety; or
   from diligence, in order to study better; or from prudence, to make
   some saving which is required; or from chastity, in order to tame the
   flesh; or from religion, the better to pray. Now, if I please, I may
   make a collection of all these intentions, and fast for them all
   together: but in that case there must be good management to place these
   motives in proper order. For if I fasted chiefly out of a sparing
   humour, rather than from obedience to the Church; if to study well
   rather than to please God;--who does not see that I pervert right and
   order, preferring my own interest before obedience to the Church and
   the pleasure of my God? To fast in order to save is good, to fast in
   order to obey the Church is better, to fast in order to please God is
   best: but though it may seem that with three goods one cannot make a
   bad; yet he who should place them out of order, preferring the less to
   the better, would without doubt commit an irregularity deserving of
   blame.

   He who invites but one of his friends, gives no offence to the rest;
   but if he invite them all, and give the chief seats to those of lower
   rank, giving the more honourable the bottom places,--does he not offend
   both those and these?--these, because he lowers them against reason:
   those, because he makes fools of them. So, when we do an action for a
   single reasonable motive, however slight it may be, reason is not
   offended thereby; but he who will have many motives, must rank them
   according to their quality, otherwise he sins: for disorder is a sin,
   as sin is a disorder. He who desires to please God and our Blessed Lady
   does excellently well, but he who would please our Blessed Lady as much
   as God, or more than God, would commit an intolerable irregularity, and
   one might say to him, as was said to Cain: If thou hast offered well
   but wrongly divided,--stop, thou hast sinned. [546] To each end we must
   give its proper rank, and consequently the sovereign rank to that of
   pleasing God.

   Now the sovereign motive of our actions, which is that of heavenly
   love, has this sovereign property, that being more pure, it makes the
   actions which proceed from it more pure; so that the angels and saints
   of heaven love absolutely nothing for any other end whatever than that
   of the love of the divine goodness, and from the motive of desiring to
   please him. They all indeed love one another most ardently, they also
   love us, they love the virtues, but all this only to please God. They
   follow and practise virtues, not inasmuch as they are fair and
   delightful, but inasmuch as they are agreeable to God: they love their
   own felicity, not because it is theirs, but because it pleases God:
   yea, they love the very love with which they love God, not because it
   is in them, but because it tends to God; not because it is sweet to
   themselves, but because it pleases God; not because they have and
   possess it, but because God gives it them, and takes his good-pleasure
   in it.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [545] These words are often quoted by the early Fathers as words of our
   Saviour; they are not found in the Bible (Tr.).

   [546] Gen. iv. 7. From the Septuagint (Tr.)
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIV.

   THE PRACTICE OF WHAT HAS BEEN SAID IN THE PRECEDING CHAPTER.

   Let us purify, then, Theotimus, as far as we can, all our intentions,
   and since we are able to spread over all the acts of the virtues the
   sacred motive of divine love, why shall we not do it, rejecting, as
   occasion requires, all kinds of vicious motives, such as vain-glory,
   and self-interest, and considering all the good motives which we may
   have for undertaking the action which presents itself, in order to
   choose that of holy love, which is the most excellent of all, to pour
   it over all the rest, or steep them in it. For example, if I desire
   valorously to expose myself to the hazards of war, I can do it,
   considering various motives: For the natural motive of this action is
   that of strength and valour, which moves us reasonably to undertake
   perilous exploits: yet besides this I may have divers other motives; as
   that of obeying the prince whom I serve, that of love for the common
   weal, that of magnanimity, which makes me rejoice in the greatness of
   this action. Now, coming to the action, I enter on the foreseen peril
   for all these motives together. But to raise them all to the rank of
   divine love, and perfectly to purify them, I will say in my soul with
   all my heart: O eternal God, who art the most dear love of my
   affections, if valour, obedience to my prince, love of my country, and
   magnanimity, were not agreeable unto thee, I would never follow the
   movements I now feel, but because these virtues please thee, I embrace
   this occasion of putting them in practice, and I will only follow their
   instinct and leading, because thou lovest and willest them.

   You see plainly, Theotimus, that by this reflection of the spirit, we
   perfume all those other motives with the holy sweetness of love, since
   we do not follow them as motives simply virtuous, but as motives,
   willed, accepted, loved and cherished by God. He who steals in order to
   get drunk, is more a drunkard than a thief, according to Aristotle; and
   he who practises valour, obedience, love of country, and magnanimity to
   please God, is rather a divine lover, than valiant, obedient,
   patriotic, and magnanimous, because his whole will in this action comes
   to terminate and be absorbed in the love of God, only using all the
   other motives to arrive at this end. We are not wont to say we are
   going to Lyons but to Paris, when we only go to Lyons in order to get
   to Paris: nor that we are going to sing but that we are going to serve
   God, when we only go to sing in order to serve God.

   And if it chance that sometimes we are touched by some particular
   motive, as, for example, if we should love chastity on account of its
   lovely and delightful purity, at once we must pour out, over this
   motive, that of holy love--in this manner: O most honourable and most
   pleasing spotlessness of chastity, how worthy of love art thou, since
   thou art so beloved of the divine goodness! Then, turning towards the
   Creator: Ah! Lord, I demand only one thing of thee, this is what I aim
   at in chastity, to see and effect in it thy good pleasure, and to take
   the delight thou takest therein. And when we begin the practice of any
   virtue, we should often say with all our heart: Yes, eternal Father, I
   will do it, for so hath it seemed good in thy sight. [547] Thus are we
   to animate all our actions with this heavenly good-pleasure, loving the
   honourableness and beauty of virtue principally because they are
   agreeable to God: for, my dear Theotimus, there are some men who
   excessively love the beauty of certain virtues, not only without loving
   charity, but even with contempt of charity. Origen and Tertullian so
   loved the purity of chastity, that for it they violated the great laws
   of charity; the one choosing to commit idolatry to preserve it, [548]
   the other separating himself from the most chaste Catholic Church, his
   mother, to establish the chastity of his wife more according to his own
   fancy. Who knows not that there were certain "Poor men of Lyons," who
   from praising mendicity excessively, became heretics, and of beggars
   became lying vagabonds? Who is ignorant of the folly of the
   Enthusiasts, Messalians, Euchites, who forsook charity, to exalt
   prayer? And were there not heretics, who to exalt charity towards the
   poor, put down charity towards God, ascribing man's whole salvation to
   alms-deeds, as S. Augustine witnesses; although the holy Apostle cries
   out, if I should distribute all my goods to feed the poor, and have not
   charity, it profiteth me nothing? [549]

   God has set over me the standard of love, [550] says the sacred
   Sulamitess. Love, Theotimus, is the standard in the army of virtues:
   they ought all to range themselves by it; it is the only flag under
   which our Saviour, who is the true General of the army, makes them
   fight. Let us therefore reduce all the virtues to the obedience of
   charity: let us love particular virtues, but principally because they
   are agreeable to God; let us excellently love the more excellent
   virtues, not because they are excellent, but because God loves them
   more excellently. Thus will holy love give life to all the virtues,
   making all of them full of love, lovable, and lovable above all things.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [547] Matt. xi. 26.

   [548] The only authority for this accusation against Origen is a
   statement of S. Epiphanius (de Hær. lxiv. c. 2), which Baronius (ann.
   253) rejects as an interpolation, and Tillemont (III. note xxii. on
   Origen) proves to be erroneous Tr.).

   [549] 1 Cor. xiii. 3.

   [550] Cant. ii. 4. From the Septuagint (Tr.).
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XV.

   HOW CHARITY CONTAINS IN IT THE GIFTS OF THE HOLY GHOST.

   That man's heart may easily follow the motions and instincts of reason,
   in order to attain the natural felicity which it can aim at, by living
   according to the laws of rectitude, it requires to have:--1°.
   Temperance, to repress the rebellious movements of sensuality;  2°.
   Justice, to render to God, our neighbour and ourselves what is due;
   3°. Fortitude, to vanquish the difficulties which occur in doing good
   and avoiding evil;  4°. Counsel, to discern what means are most proper
   to attain unto good and virtue;  5°. Knowledge, to know the true good,
   to which we are to aspire, and the true evil which we are to fly;  6°.
   Understanding, thoroughly to penetrate the first and main grounds or
   principles of the beauty and excellence of rectitude;  7°. And finally,
   wisdom, to contemplate the divinity, the prime source of all good.
   These are the qualities whereby the spirit is rendered gentle,
   obedient, and pliable, with regard to the laws of the natural reason
   which is in us.

   In like manner, the Holy Ghost, who dwelleth in us, wishing to make our
   soul supple, pliable, and obedient, with regard to his heavenly
   movements and divine inspirations, which are the laws of his love, in
   the observance of which consists the supernatural felicity of this
   present life, bestows upon us seven properties and perfections, nearly
   corresponding to those seven which we have just spoken of, and called,
   in the Holy Scripture and in the books of theologians, gifts of the
   Holy Ghost.

   Now they are not only inseparable from charity, but, all things well
   considered, and speaking precisely, they are the principal virtues,
   properties and qualities of charity. For  1°. Wisdom is in fact no
   other thing than the love which relishes, tastes and experiences, how
   sweet and delicious God is;  2°. Understanding is nothing else than
   love attentive to consider and penetrate the beauty of the truths of
   faith, to know thereby God in himself, and then descending from this to
   consider him in creatures;  3°. Science, on the other hand, is but the
   same love, keeping us attentive to the knowledge of ourselves and
   creatures, to make us reascend to a more perfect knowledge of the
   service which we owe to God;  4°. Counsel is also love, insomuch as it
   makes us careful, attentive, and wise in choosing the means proper to
   serve God holily;  5°. Fortitude is love encouraging and animating the
   heart, to put in execution that which counsel has determined should be
   done;  6°. Piety is the love which sweetens labour, and makes us, with
   good heart, with pleasure, and with a filial affection, employ
   ourselves in works which please God, our Father; and  7°. to conclude,
   Fear is nothing but love insomuch as it makes us fly and avoid what is
   displeasing to the divine Majesty.

   So, Theotimus, charity will be another Jacob's ladder to us, consisting
   of the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost, as of so many sacred steps, by
   which angelic men will ascend from earth to heaven, to be united to the
   heart of God Almighty, and by which they will descend from heaven to
   earth, to take their neighbour by the hand and lead him to heaven. For,
   as we mount the first step, Fear makes us forsake evil; on the second,
   Piety excites us to will to do good; upon the third, Knowledge makes us
   discern the good we are to do, and the evil we are to fly; upon the
   fourth, by Fortitude we take courage against all the difficulties which
   occur in our enterprise; upon the fifth, by Counsel we make choice of
   suitable means; upon the sixth, we unite our understanding to God to
   behold and penetrate the features of his infinite beauty; and upon the
   seventh, we join our wills to God, to taste and experience the
   sweetness of his incomprehensible goodness; for upon the top of this
   ladder, God bending towards us, gives us the kiss of love, and makes us
   taste the sacred breasts of his sweetness, better than wine.

   But, if after we have deliciously enjoyed these favours of love, we
   desire to return to the earth, to gain our neighbour to the same
   happiness;--from the first and highest step, where we have filled our
   will with a most ardent zeal, and have perfumed our souls with the
   perfumes of God's sovereign charity, we must descend to the second
   step, where our understanding receives an incomparable light, and makes
   provision of the most excellent considerations and maxims, to glorify
   the divine beauty and goodness; thence we pass to the third, where, by
   the gift of Counsel, we consider by what means we may instil the relish
   and esteem of the divine sweetness into our neighbour's heart; upon the
   fourth, we take heart, receiving a holy Fortitude, to surmount the
   difficulties which might cross this design; upon the fifth, by the gift
   of Knowledge, we begin to preach, exhorting souls to follow virtue and
   fly vice; upon the sixth, we strive to emplant Piety in them, that
   acknowledging God for their loving Father, they may obey him with a
   filial fear; upon the last step, we urge them to fear the judgments of
   God, so that mingling this fear of being damned with filial reverence,
   they may more earnestly forsake the earth to ascend to heaven with us.

   Charity, therefore, comprehends the seven Gifts, and is like to a fair
   lily, which has six flowers whiter than snow, and in the midst the
   beautiful little golden hammers of wisdom, which beat into our hearts
   the taste and loving relish of the goodness of the Father our Creator,
   of the mercy of the Son our Redeemer, and of the sweetness of the Holy
   Ghost our Sanctifier. And I place thus this double fear upon the two
   lowest steps, to reconcile all the translations with the holy and
   sacred Vulgate edition: for if in the Hebrew, the word fear is twice
   said, this is not without mystery, but to show that there is a gift of
   filial fear, which is nothing else but the gift of piety, and a gift of
   servile fear, which is the beginning of all the progress we make
   towards the sovereign wisdom.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVI.

   OF THE LOVING FEAR OF SPOUSES; A CONTINUATION OF THE SAME SUBJECT.

   Ah! my brother Jonathan, said David, thou wast amiable to me above the
   love of women: [551] as though he had said, thou wast worthy of a
   greater love than that of wives for their husbands. All excellent
   things are rare. Imagine to yourself, Theotimus, a spouse of dove-like
   heart and having the perfection of nuptial love. Her love is
   incomparable, not only in excellence, but also in the great variety of
   beautiful affections and qualities which accompany it; it is not only
   chaste, but modest; it is strong, but gracious withal; it is violent
   and yet tender; it is ardent yet respectful, noble yet fearful, bold
   yet obedient, and all its fear is mingled with a delicious confidence.
   Such truly is the fear of a soul endowed with the excellence of love;
   for she has such assurance of the goodness of her spouse that she fears
   not the losing of him, but she greatly fears that she will not enjoy
   enough of his divine presence, and that some occasion may make him
   absent himself, though only for a moment. She is quite confident that
   she will never displease him, but she fears she may not love him as
   much as love requires: her love is too noble to entertain even the
   least suspicion of ever falling into disgrace with him, but still it is
   so sensitive that it fears it may not be closely enough united to him;
   yea, the soul sometimes arrives at such perfection that she no longer
   fears she may not be closely enough united to him, her love assuring
   her that she will be so for ever, but she fears that this union may not
   be so pure, simple and attentive as her love would desire. Such is that
   admirable lover, who would not love spiritual sweetnesses, pleasures,
   virtues, consolations, lest she might be diverted, be it ever so
   little, from her only love, which is the love she bears to her beloved;
   protesting that it is himself, not his gifts, which she seeks, and
   crying out to this effect:--Ah! show me, O thou whom my soul loveth,
   where thou feedest, where thou liest in the midday, lest I begin to
   wander after [552] the pleasures which are outside thee.

   With this sacred fear of divine spouses were touched the great souls of
   S. Paul, S. Francis, S. Catharine of Genoa, and others, who would not
   admit any mixture in their loves, but endeavoured to make them so pure,
   so simple, and so perfect, that neither consolations, nor the virtues
   themselves, should find any place between their heart and God, so that
   they might say: I live, not I, but Jesus Christ lives in me: my God is
   all things to me: what is not my God is nothing to me; Jesus Christ is
   my life: my love is crucified; and other such words of an ecstatic
   heart.

   Now the love of beginners or learners proceeds from true love, but from
   a love which is as yet young, feeble and only beginning; filial fear
   proceeds from a constant and solid love, already tending to perfection;
   but the fear of spouses springs from the excellence and perfection of
   love already quite possessed: and as to servile and mercenary fears,
   they do not truly proceed from love, but ordinarily precede love, and
   are its harbingers, as we have already said, and they are oftentimes
   very profitable servants. You will see, Theotimus, an honourable lady
   who, not willing to eat her bread idle, any more than she did whom
   Solomon so much extolled, [553] will lay silk in goodly variety of
   colours on fine white satin, which afterwards she will richly embellish
   with gold and silver in suitable patterns: the work is wrought with the
   needle, which she inserts wherever she would lay her silk, silver, or
   gold; yet the needle is not put into the satin to be left there, but
   only to draw in after it and make way for, the silk, silver, and gold:
   so that when these are once laid upon their grounds, the needle is
   drawn out and taken away. Even so the divine goodness, wishing to place
   a great variety of virtues in man's soul, and afterwards to embellish
   them with his sacred love, makes use of the needle of servile and
   mercenary fear, with which our hearts are ordinarily first pricked. But
   still this is not left there, but ever as the virtues are drawn into
   and laid in the soul, mercenary and servile fear departs, according to
   the word of the beloved disciple: Perfect charity casteth out fear.
   [554] Yea, verily, Theotimus, for the fear of being damned and of
   losing heaven is dreadful and full of anguish: and how can it then
   stand with sacred love, which is all agreeable, all sweet?

     __________________________________________________________________

   [551] 2 Kings i. 26.

   [552] Cant. i. 6.

   [553] Prov. xxxi. 27.

   [554] 1 John iv. 18.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVII.

   HOW SERVILE FEAR REMAINS TOGETHER WITH HOLY LOVE.

   Although, however, the lady we spoke of will not leave her needle in
   her work after it is finished, yet as long as there remains anything to
   be done in it, if any other occurrence make her stop, she will leave
   the needle sticking in the pink, the rose, or the pansy which she is
   embroidering, so as to have it more ready when she returns to her work.
   In like manner, Theotimus, while the Divine Providence is about the
   embroidery of virtues and the work of divine love in our souls, there
   is always a mercenary or servile fear left in them, till charity, being
   come to perfection, takes out this pricking needle and puts it back, as
   it were, in its cushion. In this life, therefore, wherein our charity
   will never come to such perfection that it shall be exempt from peril,
   fear is always necessary, and even while we thrill with joy by love, we
   must tremble with apprehension by fear. Serve ye the Lord with fear,
   and rejoice unto him with trembling. [555]

   Our great father Abraham sent his servant Eliezer to choose a wife for
   his only son Isaac: Eliezer went, and by Divine inspiration made choice
   of the fair and chaste Rebecca, whom he took back with him. But this
   wise maiden quitted Eliezer as soon as she met Isaac; and being
   introduced into the tent of Sara, she remained his spouse for ever. God
   often sends servile fear as another Eliezer (and Eliezer is
   interpreted, help of God) to arrange the marriage between the soul and
   sacred love. But though the soul comes under the conduct of fear, she
   does not mean to espouse it; for, in fact, as soon as the soul meets
   with love, she unites herself unto it, and quits fear.

   Yet as Eliezer after his return remained in the house, in the service
   of Isaac and Rebecca, so fear, having led us to holy love, remains
   still with us, to serve both love and the loving soul as occasion
   requires. For though the soul be just, yet is she oft set upon by
   extreme temptations, and love, all courageous as it is, has enough to
   do to sustain the assault, by reason of the disadvantage of the place
   wherein it is, which is the heart of man, changeable and subject to the
   mutiny of the passions. In that case, therefore, Theotimus, love
   employs fear in the fight, making use of it to repulse the enemy. The
   brave prince Jonathan, when going to attack the Philistines amidst the
   obscurity of the night, would have his armour-bearer with him, and
   those that he killed not, his armour-bearer killed [556] So love
   wishing to carry out some bold enterprise, uses not only its own
   motives, but also the motives of servile and mercenary fear; and the
   temptations which love does not strike down are overthrown by the fear
   of being damned. If a temptation to pride, avarice, or some voluptuous
   pleasure attack me:--Ah! I will say, shall it be possible, that for
   things so vain, my soul would quit the grace of her well-beloved? But
   if this will not serve, love will call fear to its aid:--Ah! dost thou
   not see, miserable heart, that if thou give way to this temptation the
   horrible flames of hell await thee, and that thou losest the eternal
   inheritance of heaven? A man makes use of anything in extreme
   necessities, as the same Jonathan did, when passing the sharp rocks,
   which were between him and the Philistines, he not only used his feet,
   but went scrambling and creeping on hands and feet as best he could.

   Even therefore as mariners who sail out with a fair wind and in fair
   weather, do yet never forget the cables, anchors, and the other things
   required in time of hazard and tempest, in like manner the servant of
   God, though he enjoy the sweet repose of holy love, must never be
   unprovided with the fear of God's judgments, to help himself therewith
   amidst the storms and assaults of temptation. Or, again, as the skin of
   an apple, which in itself is of small esteem, is yet very useful for
   preserving the apple which it covers; so servile fear, which of its own
   nature is of little worth in comparison with love, is yet very
   serviceable for preserving it during the dangers of this mortal life.
   And as he who gives a pomegranate gives it indeed for the seeds and
   juice which are contained in its but yet gives also the skin as a
   necessary accompaniment of it; so, although the Holy Ghost amongst his
   sacred gifts bestows a loving fear upon the souls which are his, that
   they may fear God in piety as their father and their spouse, yet does
   he not fail to add mercenary and servile fear, as an accessary to the
   other which is more excellent. So Joseph sending to his father many
   loads of all the riches of Egypt, gave him not only the treasures, but
   withal the asses that bore them.

   Now although mercenary and servile fear is very necessary for this
   mortal life, yet is it unworthy to have any part in the immortal, where
   there will be an assurance void of fear, a peace without apprehension,
   a repose free from anxiety. Yet the services which this servile and
   mercenary fear shall have done to love will be there rewarded; so that
   though these fears, as another Moses and another Aaron, enter not into
   the land of promise, yet shall their posterity and works enter: and as
   to the fear of children and the fear of spouses, they will hold their
   rank and place, not to cause any distrust or trouble in the soul, but
   to make her admire and reverence with submission the incomprehensible
   Majesty of this omnipotent Father, and this Spouse of Glory. The law of
   the Lord is unspotted, converting souls. . . . The fear of the Lord is
   holy, enduring for ever and ever. [557]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [555] Ps. i. 11.

   [556] 1 Kings xiv. 1.

   [557] Ps. xviii. 8, 10.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XVIII.

   HOW LOVE MAKES USE OF NATURAL, SERVILE AND MERCENARY FEAR.

   Lightning, thunder, thunderbolts, tempests, inundations, earthquakes,
   and other such unforeseen accidents, excite even the most indevout
   persons to fear God, and nature, which goes before reasoning in those
   occurrences, drives the heart, the eyes, yea the very hands heavenwards
   to invoke the assistance of the most holy Divinity, according to the
   common sentiment of mankind, which is, says Titus Livius, that such as
   serve the Almighty prosper, and such as contemn him are afflicted. In
   the storm which imperilled Jonas, the mariners feared with a great
   fear, and immediately each of them turned to his god. They were
   ignorant, says S. Jerome, of the truth, yet they knew there was a
   Providence, and believed it was by the judgment of heaven that they
   were in this danger; as those of Malta, when they saw S. Paul, after
   the shipwreck, attacked by the viper, believed that it was from the
   divine vengeance. [558] And indeed thunder and lightning, tempests,
   thunderbolts, are called by the Psalmist, Voices of the Lord; and he
   says further, that they fulfil his word, [559] because they proclaim
   his fear, and are as ministers of his justice. And again, desiring that
   the divine Majesty should make his enemies tremble, he says: Send forth
   lightning and thou shalt scatter them: shoot out thy arrows, and thou
   shalt trouble them: [560] where he terms thunderbolts the arrows and
   darts of God. And before the Psalmist, Samuel's good mother had already
   sung, that even God's enemies would fear him, if he would thunder over
   them from heaven. [561] Indeed Plato, in his Gorgias and elsewhere,
   testifies that there was some sense of fear among the pagans, not only
   concerning the chastisements which the sovereign justice of God
   inflicts in this world, but also concerning the punishments which he
   inflicts in the other life upon the souls of those who have incurable
   sins. So deeply is the instinct of fearing the Divinity graven in man's
   nature.

   This fear, however, when felt after the manner of a first movement, or
   natural feeling, is neither to be praised nor blamed in us, since it
   proceeds not from our free-will. Yet it is an effect from a very good
   cause, and a cause of a very good effect; for it comes from the natural
   knowledge which God has given us of his Providence, and gives us to
   understand how closely we depend on the sovereign omnipotence, moving
   us to implore his aid; and when this feeling is found in a faithful
   soul, it much advances her in goodness. Christians (amidst the dread
   which thunder, tempests, and other natural dangers cause in them)
   invoke the sacred names of Jesus and of Mary, make the sign of the
   Cross, prostrate themselves before God, and make many good acts of
   faith, hope and religion. The glorious saint Thomas Aquinas, being
   naturally subject to terror when it thundered, was accustomed to say,
   as an ejaculatory prayer, the divine words which the church so much
   esteems: The Word was made flesh. Upon this fear, then, divine love
   frequently makes acts of complacency and benevolence: I will praise
   thee, for thou art fearfully magnfied. [562] Let every one fear thee, O
   Lord! O ye kings understand: receive instruction, you that judge the
   earth. Serve ye the Lord with fear: and rejoice unto him with
   trembling. [563]

   But there is another fear, taking its origin from faith, which teaches
   us that after this mortal life there are punishments fear fully
   eternal, or eternally to be feared, prepared for such as in this world
   have offended the Divine Majesty and die without being reconciled to
   him; that at the hour of death the soul shall be judged by a particular
   judgment; and that at the end of the world all shall rise and appear
   together to be judged again in the universal judgment. For these
   Christian truths, Theotimus, strike with an extreme dread the heart
   that deeply ponders them. And indeed how could one represent unto
   himself those eternal horrors without shuddering and trembling with
   apprehension? Now when these sentiments of fear take such root in our
   souls that they drive and banish thence the affection and will to sin,
   as the sacred Council of Trent speaks, they are certainly very
   wholesome. We have conceived of thy fear, O Lord, and have brought
   forth the spirit of salvation, is said in Isaias. [564] That is, thy
   wrathful face terrified us, and made us conceive and bring forth the
   spirit of penance, which is the spirit of salvation; so did the
   Psalmist say: There is no peace for my bones, because of my sins, yea,
   they tremble, because of thy wrath. [565]

   Our Saviour, who came to establish the law of love amongst us, ceases
   not to inculcate this fear: Fear him, he says, that can destroy both
   soul and body into hell. [566] The Ninivites did penance upon the
   threat of their destruction and damnation, and their repentance was
   agreeable to God; and, in a word, this fear is comprised amongst the
   gifts of the Holy Ghost, as many ancient Fathers have noted.

   But if fear does not exclude the will of sinning and affection for sin,
   it is certainly evil, and like to that of the devils, who often cease
   to do harm for fear of being tormented by exorcisms, without ceasing to
   desire and will evil, which is their meditation for ever; or it is like
   to that of the miserable galley-slave, who would like to tear out his
   overseer's heart, though he dares not stir from the oar for fear of
   being lashed; or like to the fear of that great heresiarch of the last
   century, [567] who confessed that he hated a God who punished the
   wicked. Truly he who loves sin, and would willingly commit it, in spite
   of the will of God, though he will not commit it simply because he
   fears to be damned, has a horrible and detestable fear: for though he
   has not the will to execute the sin, yet he has the execution of it in
   his will, since he would do it if fear held him not back, and since it
   is as it were by force that he does not put his will into effect.

   To this fear we may add another, less malicious indeed yet equally
   useless: such as that of the judge Felix, who, hearing God's judgments
   spoken of, was terrified; [568] yet he did not for all that give up his
   avarice; and that of Baltassar, who, seeing that miraculous hand which
   wrote his condemnation upon the wall, was so struck with dread that his
   countenance changed, and his thoughts troubled him: and the joints of
   his loins were loosed, and his knees struck one against the other:
   [569] and yet he did not do penance. Now to what purpose do we fear
   evil, if our fear does not make us resolve to avoid it?

   The fear, then, of those who as slaves observe the law of God to avoid
   hell, is very good; but much more noble and desirable is the fear of
   mercenary Christians, who, as hirelings, faithfully labour, yet not
   principally for any love they bear their masters but to be paid the
   wages promised them. O! if the eye could see, if the ear could hear, or
   if it could enter into the heart of man what God hath prepared for
   those that serve him--Ah! what a dread would one have of violating
   God's commandments, for fear of losing those immortal rewards! what
   tears would be shed, what groans would be uttered, when they were lost
   by sin! Yet this fear would be blameworthy if it contained in it the
   exclusion of holy love; for he who should say: I will not serve God for
   any love I intend to have for him, but only to obtain the rewards he
   promises,--would commit blasphemy, preferring the reward to the master,
   the benefit to the benefactor, the inheritance to the father, and his
   own profit to God Almighty, as we have more amply shown in the second
   Book.

   But, finally, when we are afraid of offending God not to avoid the
   pains of hell or the loss of heaven, but only because God being our
   good Father we owe him honour, respect, obedience, then our fear is
   filial, because a good child does not obey his father on account of the
   power he has to punish his disobedience, or because he might disinherit
   him, but purely because he is his father; in such sort that though his
   father might be old, powerless, and poor, he would not serve him with
   less diligence, but rather, like the bird of filial piety, would assist
   him with the more care and affection. So Joseph seeing that good man
   Jacob his father, old, in want, and brought under his son's government,
   ceased not to honour, serve and reverence him with a tenderness more
   than filial, and which was so great that his brothers having observed
   it, considered that it would even operate after the father's death, and
   therefore worked on it to obtain pardon from him, saying: Your father
   commanded us before he died, that we should say thus much to thee from
   him: I beseech thee to forget the wickedness of thy brethren, and the
   sin and malice they practised against thee: we also pray thee, to
   forgive the servants of the God of thy father this wickedness. And when
   Joseph heard this, he wept, [570] so readily did his filial heart melt
   when his deceased father's wishes and will were represented to him.
   Those, therefore, fear God with a filial affection who fear to
   displease him purely and simply because he is their most sweet, most
   benign and most amiable Father.

   At the same time, when it happens that this filial fear is joined,
   mingled and tempered with the servile fear of eternal damnation, or
   with the mercenary fear of losing heaven, it ceases not to be agreeable
   to God, and is called a beginning fear, that is a fear of such as are
   beginners and learners in the exercises of divine love. For as young
   boys when they first begin to ride, feeling their horse curvet a
   little, not only cleave close to him with their knees, but also catch
   hard hold of the saddle with their hands, but after they have had a
   little more practice simply press their saddles close;--even so,
   novices and apprentices in God's service, finding themselves in
   desperate straits amid the assaults which the enemy delivers at the
   beginning, not only make use of filial but also of mercenary and
   servile fear, and hold themselves on as they can, that they may not
   fall from their design.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [558] Acts xxviii. 4.

   [559] Ps. cxlviii. 8.

   [560] Ps. cxliii.

   [561] 1 Kings ii. 10.

   [562] Ps. cxxxviii. 14.

   [563] Ps. ii. 10, 11.

   [564] xxvi. 18, according to the Hebrew [Tr.]

   [565] Ps. xxxvii. 4

   [566] Matt. x. 28.

   [567] Luther [Tr.]

   [568] Acts xxiv. 25.

   [569] Dan. v. 6.

   [570] Gen. l. 17.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIX.

   HOW SACRED LOVE CONTAINS THE TWELVE FRUITS OF THE HOLY GHOST, TOGETHER
   WITH THE EIGHT BEATITUDES OF THE GOSPEL.

   The glorious S. Paul speaks thus: Now the fruit of the Spirit is
   charity, joy, peace, patience, benignity, goodness, longanimity,
   mildness, faith, modesty, continency, chastity. [571] But mark,
   Theotimus, how this holy Apostle, counting these twelve fruits of the
   Holy Ghost, reckons them as only one fruit; for he does not say the
   fruits of the spirit are charity, joy, but the fruit of the spirit is
   charity, joy. Now the mystery of this manner of speech is this. The
   charity of God is poured forth in our hearts, by the Holy Ghost who is
   given to us. [572] charity is truly the only fruit of the Holy Ghost,
   but because this one fruit has an infinity of excellent properties, the
   Apostle, who wishes to mention some of them by way of example, speaks
   of this one fruit as of many, because of the multitude of properties
   which it contains in its unity, and conversely speaks of all these
   fruits as of one only, by reason of the unity in which is comprised
   this variety. So he who should say that the fruit of the vine is
   grapes, must, wine, brandy, the drink that rejoices the heart of man,
   the beverage that comforts the stomach:--would not mean that they were
   fruits of different species, but only that, although it was only one
   fruit, yet it had many different properties, according as it was
   differently used.

   The Apostle, then, simply means to say that the fruit of the Holy Ghost
   is charity; which is joyous, peaceable, patient, benign, good,
   long-suffering, mild, faithful, modest, continent, chaste; that is to
   say, that divine love gives us an inward joy and consolation together
   with great peace of heart, which in adversity is preserved by patience,
   and which makes us benign and gracious in succouring our neighbour by a
   cordial goodness towards him; a goodness which is not variable, but
   constant and persevering, and which gives us a noble, long-suffering
   heart, by means of which we become mild, affable and condescending to
   all, we support their humours and imperfections, we keep perfectly
   faithful towards them, testifying a simplicity accompanied with
   confidence as well in our words as in our actions, we live modestly and
   humbly, cutting off all superfluities and irregularities in meat,
   drink, apparel, bed, games, pastimes and other such desires and
   pleasures, by a holy continency, repressing, especially, the
   inclinations and rebellions of the flesh by a vigilant chastity; so
   that our whole man may come to be engaged in holy loving, as well
   interiorly by joy, peace, patience, longanimity, goodness and fidelity,
   as exteriorly by benignity, mildness, modesty, continency and chastity.

   Now charity is called a fruit inasmuch as it delights us, and inasmuch
   as we enjoy its delicious sweetness, the sweetness of a true apple of
   paradise, gathered from the tree of life, which is the Holy Spirit,
   grafted on our human spirits and dwelling in us by his infinite mercy.
   But when we not only rejoice in this heavenly love and enjoy its
   delicious sweetness, but also place all our glory therein as in the
   crown of our honour, then it is not only a fruit, delightful to our
   palate, but it is also a most desirable beatitude and felicity, not
   only because it assures to us the felicity of the next life, but also
   because even in this life it enriches us with a contentment of
   inestimable value, a contentment which is so strong that all the waters
   of tribulation and the floods of persecution cannot extinguish it. Yea,
   it is not only not extinguished, but it waxes rich amidst poverty, it
   is glorified by abjections and humiliations, it rejoices in tears, it
   gains strength by being forsaken of justice and deprived of the help
   thereof when it implores and no one will grant; compassion and
   commiseration recreate it, when it is surrounded by the miserable and
   suffering; it delights in renouncing all sorts of sensual and earthly
   delights to obtain purity and cleanness of heart; it places its valour
   in stilling wars, jarrings and dissensions, and in spurning temporal
   grandeurs and reputations; it grows strong by enduring all sorts of
   sufferings, and holds that its true life consists in dying for the
   well-beloved.

   So that in a word, Theotimus, most holy charity is a virtue, a gift, a
   fruit and a beatitude. As being a virtue, it makes us obedient to the
   exterior inspirations which God gives us by his commandments and
   counsels, in the execution of which we practise all virtues; whence
   love is the virtue of all virtues. As being a gift, charity makes us
   docile and tractable to interior inspirations, which are, as it were,
   God's secret commandments and counsels, in the execution of which the
   seven gifts of the Holy Ghost are employed, so that charity is the gift
   of gifts. As being a fruit, it gives us an extreme relish and pleasure
   in the practice of the devout life, which is felt in the twelve fruits
   of the Holy Ghost, and therefore it is the fruit of fruits. As being a
   beatitude, it makes us repute the affronts, calumnies, revilings and
   insults which the world heaps upon us as the greatest of favours and a
   singular honour; and withal makes us forsake, renounce and reject all
   other glory save that which comes from the well-beloved Crucified, for
   which glory we glory in the abjection, abnegation and annihilation of
   ourselves, desiring no other marks of majesty than the thorn-crown of
   the Crucified, the sceptre of His reed, the robe of scorn which was put
   upon Him, and the throne of His cross, upon which sacred lovers have
   more content, joy, glory and felicity than ever Solomon had on his
   throne of ivory.

   Thus love is oftentimes represented by the pomegranate, which, as it
   takes its properties from the pomegranate-tree, may be said to be the
   virtue of this tree; so again it seems to be its gift, which it offers
   to man by love; and it is its fruit, since it is eaten to please man's
   taste; and finally it is, so to speak, its glory and beatitude, since
   it bears the crown and diadem.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [571] Gal. v. 22.

   [572] Rom. v. 5.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XX.

   HOW DIVINE LOVE MAKES USE OF ALL THE PASSIONS AND AFFECTIONS OF THE
   SOUL, AND REDUCES THEM TO ITS OBEDIENCE.

   Love is the life of our heart, and as the weights give movement to all
   the movable parts of a clock, so love gives to the soul all the
   movements it has. All our affections follow our love, and according to
   it we desire, we rejoice, we hope, we despair, we fear, we take heart,
   we hate, we avoid things, we grieve, we get angry, we triumph. Do not
   we see that men who have given up their heart as a prey to the base and
   abject love of women have no desires but according to this love, take
   no pleasure but in it, neither hope nor despair but on this account,
   neither dread nor undertake anything but for it, are neither disgusted
   nor fly from anything save what diverts them from it, are only troubled
   at what deprives them of it, are never angry but from jealousy, never
   glory but in this infamy. The like may be said of those who love riches
   or are ambitious of honours; for they become slaves to that which they
   love, and have neither heart in their breasts, nor soul in their
   hearts, nor affections in their souls, save only for that.

   When therefore divine love reigns in our hearts, it royally brings to
   its empire all the other loves of the will, and consequently all its
   affections, because they naturally follow love; this done, it tames
   sensual love, and bringing it to obedience, brings also after it all
   the sensual passions. For, in a word, this sacred love is the sovereign
   water, of which our Saviour said: He that shall drink of the water that
   I will give him, shall not thirst for ever. [573] No truly, Theotimus,
   he that has love in any abundance, he shall neither have desire, fear,
   hope, courage, nor joy but for God, and all his movements shall be at
   rest in this one celestial love.

   Divine love and self-love are in our hearts as Jacob and Esau in the
   womb of Rebecca: they have a very great antipathy and opposition to one
   another, and continually struggle in the heart; whence the poor soul
   cries out: Alas! wretched that I am, who will deliver me from the body
   of this death, that the sole love of my God may peaceably reign in me?
   However, we must take courage, putting our trust in our Saviour's word,
   who, commanding us to fight, by his command promises victory to his
   love; and he seems to say to the soul that which he caused to be said
   to Rebecca: Two nations are in thy womb, and two people shall be
   divided out of thy womb, and one people shall overcome the other, and
   the elder shall serve the younger. [574] For as Rebecca had only two
   children in her womb, but because two peoples were to descend from
   these was said to have two nations in her womb, so the soul having two
   loves in her heart, has consequently two great troops of motions,
   affections and passions; and as the two children of Rebecca by the
   contrariety of their movements made her suffer great convulsions and
   pains, so the two loves of our soul cause great travails to our heart.
   And as it was said of her two children that the elder should serve the
   younger, so has it been ordained that of these two loves of our heart
   the sensual shall serve the spiritual, that is, self-love shall serve
   the love of God.

   But when was it that the elder of those peoples which were in Rebecca's
   womb served the younger? Surely it was only when David overcame the
   Idumeans in war, and Solomon ruled over them in peace. Oh! when
   therefore shall it be that sensual love shall serve Divine love? It
   shall then be, Theotimus, when armed love, having become zeal, shall by
   mortification subject our passions; and far better then, when in heaven
   above, beatified love shall possess our whole soul in peace.

   Now the method by which Divine love is to subject the sensual appetite
   is like to that which Jacob used when, for a good presage and beginning
   of what was afterwards to come to pass, he at the birth of Esau held
   him by the foot, as it were to seize Esau's right, supplant him and
   keep him down, or, as it were, to keep him tied up after the manner of
   a bird of prey, such as Esau was, being a hunter and a terrible man.
   For so holy love perceiving some passion or natural affection rising in
   us, must presently take it by the foot and bring it to its service. But
   what is meant by taking by the foot? To bind and reduce it to the
   service of God. Do you not see how Moses transformed the serpent into a
   rod, simply taking it by the tail? Even so, when we give a good end to
   our passions they turn into virtues.

   But what method are we then to observe in order to bring our affections
   and passions into the service of Divine love. The Methodic physicians
   have always this aphorism in their mouths,--that contraries are cured
   by their contraries; the Spagyrists have another famous sentence
   opposed to this--that likes are cured by their likes. Howsoever it be,
   we know that two things make the light of the stars disappear,--the
   obscurity of the mists of night, and the light of the sun which is
   stronger than theirs; and in like manner we fight against passions,
   either by opposing to them contrary passions, or by opposing stronger
   affections of their own kind. If some vain hope present itself unto me,
   my way of resistance may be to oppose to it this just discouragement: O
   foolish man! upon what foundation do you build this hope? Do you not
   see that this great man in whom you trust is as near to his grave as
   thyself? Do you not know the instability, weakness and imbecillity of
   the spirit of man? Today this heart from which you expect something is
   thine, tomorrow another will carry it away for himself: on what then is
   this hope grounded? I can also resist this hope by opposing to it a
   more solid one. Hope in God, O my soul! for it is he who delivers thy
   feet out of the snare; no man ever hoped in him, and was confounded:
   fix thy designs upon eternal and imperishable things. In like manner
   one may combat the desire of riches and temporal delights, either by
   the contempt they merit or by the desire of immortal ones; and by this
   means sensual and earthly love will be destroyed by heavenly love,
   either as fire is extinguished by water on account of the contrary
   qualities of water, or as it is extinguished by fire from heaven, on
   account of the stronger and overpowering qualities of this.

   Our Saviour makes use of both these methods in his spiritual cures. He
   cures his disciples of worldly fear by imprinting in their hearts a
   higher fear: Fear ye not them that kill the body, and are not able to
   kill the soul: but rather fear him that can destroy both soul and body
   into hell. [575] When he would another time cure them of a lower joy,
   he assigned them a nobler one: Rejoice not, said he, in this, that
   spirits are subject unto you: but rejoice in this, that your names are
   written in heaven: [576] and he himself casts out joy by grief: Woe to
   you that now laugh: for you shall mourn and weep. [577] Thus does
   Divine love supplant and bring into subjection the affections and
   passions, turning them from the end to which self-love would sway them,
   and applying them to its spiritual intentions. And as the rainbow
   touching the herb aspalathus deprives it of its own smell and gives it
   another far more excellent, so sacred love touching our passions takes
   from them their earthly end, and bestows a heavenly one in its place.
   The appetite for food is made very spiritual if before gratifying it we
   give it the motive of love:--Ah! no, Lord! it is not to content this
   wretched stomach, nor to allay this appetite that I go to table, but
   according to thy Providence to sustain this body which thou hast given
   me subject to this misery: yes, Lord! because it hath so pleased thee.
   If I hope for a friend's assistance can I not say: O Lord, thou hast so
   appointed our life, that we should have to take help, comfort and
   consolation from one another; and because so it pleases thee, I will
   use this or that man whose friendship thou hast given me to this end.
   Is there some just occasion for fear? It is thy will, O Lord, that I
   should fear, in order that I may use fit means to avoid this trouble; I
   will do so, O Lord, since such is thy good pleasure. If the fear be
   excessive: Ah! O God, my eternal Father! what is it that thy children,
   or the chickens which live under thy wings can fear? so then, I will
   take the means necessary to avoid the evil which I fear, but that
   done,--Lord, I am thine, save thou me, if it be thy pleasure, and what
   may befall me I will accept, because such will be thy good pleasure. O
   holy and sacred alchemy! O heavenly projection-powder! by which all the
   metals of our passions, affections and actions are converted into the
   most pure gold of heavenly love.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [573] John iv. 13.

   [574] Gen. xxv. 23.

   [575] Matt. x. 28.

   [576] Luke x. 20.

   [577] Luke vi. 25.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XXI.

   THAT SADNESS IS ALMOST ALWAYS USELESS, YEA CONTRARY TO THE SERVICE OF
   HOLY LOVE.

   One cannot graft an oak upon a pear tree, of so contrary a humour are
   those two trees: nor can anger or despair be grafted on charity, at
   least it would be very difficult. As for anger, we have seen this in
   the discourse upon zeal; as for despair, unless it be reduced to the
   legitimate distrust of ourselves, or to a sense of the vanity, weakness
   and inconstancy of worldly favours, helps and promises, I see not what
   service Divine love can draw from it.

   And as for sadness, how can it be profitable to holy charity, seeing
   that joy is ranked amongst the fruits of the Holy Ghost, coming next to
   charity? Still, the great apostle says: The sorrow that is according to
   God worketh penance unto salvation which is lasting: but the sorrow of
   the world worketh death. [578] There is then a sorrow or sadness
   according to God, which is employed either by sinners in penance, or by
   the good in compassion for the temporal miseries of their neighbours,
   or by the perfect in deploring, bemoaning and condoling the spiritual
   calamities of souls. For David, S. Peter, Magdalen, wept for their
   sins; Agar wept when she saw her son almost dead of thirst; Jeremias
   over the ruin of Jerusalem; Our Saviour over the Jews; and his great
   Apostle sighing says these words: Many walk of whom I have told you
   often (and now tell you weeping) that they are enemies of the cross of
   Christ. [579]

   There is then also a sadness of this world, which likewise proceeds
   from three causes. For--1°. It comes sometimes from the infernal enemy,
   who by a thousand sad, melancholy and disturbing suggestions obscures
   the understanding, weakens the will, and troubles the whole soul: and
   as a thick mist fills the head and breast with rheum, and by this means
   makes respiration difficult, and greatly incommodes the traveller; so
   the evil spirit, filling man's mind with sad thoughts, deprives it of
   facility in aspiring to God, and possesses it with an extreme tedium
   and discouragement, in order to bring it to despair and perdition. They
   say there is a fish called the sea-toad, surnamed the sea-devil, which
   stirring and spreading the mud troubles the water round about it so as
   to hide itself therein as in an ambush, from whence, as soon as it
   perceives poor little fishes, it darts upon them, kills and devours
   them: whence perhaps has come the common expression--fishing in
   troubled waters. Now it is the same with the devil of hell as with the
   devil of the sea; for he makes his ambush in sadness, and then, having
   troubled the soul with a multitude of sad thoughts cast hither and
   thither in the understanding, he makes a charge upon the affections,
   bearing them down with distrust, jealousies, aversions, envies,
   superfluous apprehensions of past sins, adding withal a number of vain,
   sour and melancholy subtleties of the imagination, that all reasons and
   consolations may be rejected.

   2°. Sadness sometimes also proceeds from one's natural disposition,
   when the melancholy humour predominates in us: and this is not vicious
   in itself, yet our enemy makes great use of it to weave and prepare a
   thousand temptations in our souls. For as spiders scarcely ever spin
   their webs save when the weather is dull and the sky cloudy; so this
   malign spirit never finds as much facility in spreading the nets of his
   suggestions in sweet, kindly and bright souls, as he has with the
   gloomy, sad and melancholy; for these he easily disturbs with
   vexations, suspicions, hatreds, murmurings, censures, envies, sloth and
   spiritual numbness.

   3°. Lastly, there is a sadness which the various accidents of life
   bring upon us. What manner of joy shall be to me, said Tobias, who sit
   in darkness, and see not the light of heaven [580] Thus was Jacob sad
   on the news of the death of his Joseph, and David for that of his
   Absalom. Now this sadness is common to the good and the bad; but to the
   good it is moderated by acquiescence in and resignation to the will of
   God: as we see in Tobias, who gave thanks to the Divine Majesty for all
   the adversities which came upon him, and in Job, who blessed the name
   of the Lord for them, and in Daniel, who turned his griefs into songs
   of joy. As to worldlings, on the contrary, this sadness is an ordinary
   thing with them, and spreads out into regrets, despair, and deadness of
   soul: for they are like apes and monkeys, which are always sullen, sad
   and peevish at the waning of the moon, as, on the contrary, at the new
   moon, they leap, dance and play their apish tricks. The worldling is
   out of temper, uncivil, bitter and gloomy when temporal prosperity
   fails him; and in abundance he is almost always boastful, foolishly
   elated and insolent.

   Indeed the sadness of true penitence is not so much to be named sadness
   as displeasure, or the sense and detestation of evil; a sadness which
   is never troubled nor vexed; a sadness which does not dull the spirit,
   but makes it active, ready and diligent; a sadness which does not weigh
   the heart down, but raises it by prayer and hope, and causes in it the
   movements of the fervour of devotion; a sadness which in the heaviest
   of its bitternesses ever produces the sweetness of an incomparable
   consolation, according to the precept of the great S. Augustine: "Let
   the penitent sorrow always, yet always rejoice for his sorrow." "The
   sadness," says Cassian, "which works solid penitence, and that
   desirable repentance of which one never repents, is obedient, affable,
   humble, mild, sweet, patient,--as being a child and scion of charity:
   so that spreading over every pain of body and contrition of spirit, and
   being in a certain way joyous, courageous, and strengthened by the hope
   of doing better, it retains all the sweetness of gentleness and
   longanimity, having in itself the Fruits of the Holy Spirit, which the
   holy Apostle recounts: Now the Fruits of the Spirit are charity, joy,
   peace, longanimity, goodness, benignity, faith, mildness, continency."
   Such is true penitence, and such is right sadness, which in good sooth
   is not really sad or melancholy, but only attentive and earnest to
   detest, reject and hinder the evil of sin for past and for future. And
   indeed we often see repentances which are very eager, troubled,
   impatient, wet-eyed, bitter, given to groans, very crabbed and
   melancholy, which at last turn out fruitless and lack all true
   amendment, because they do not proceed from the true motives of the
   virtue of penitence, but from selfish and natural love.

   The sorrow of the world worketh death, [581] says the Apostle; we must,
   therefore, Theotimus, carefully avoid and banish it as much as we can.
   If it be from nature, we must repulse it by contradicting its
   movements, turning it aside by the practices suitable to that purpose,
   and using the remedies and way of life which physicians themselves may
   judge best. If it come from temptation, we must clearly open our mind
   to our spiritual father, who, will prescribe for us the method of
   overcoming it, according as we have said in Part IV. of the
   Introduction to the Devout Life. If it arise from circumstances, we
   will have recourse to the teaching of Book VIII., in order to see how
   grateful tribulations are to the children of God, and how the greatness
   of our hopes for eternal life ought to make all the passing events of
   the temporal almost unworthy of thinking about.

   At last, in all the sadness which may come upon us, we must employ the
   authority of the superior will to do all that should be done in favour
   of divine love. There are indeed actions which so depend upon the
   corporal disposition and constitution that we have not the power to do
   them just as we please: for the melancholy-disposed cannot keep their
   eyes, or their words, or their faces, in the same good grace and
   sweetness as they would do if they were relieved from this bad humour;
   but they are quite able, though without this good grace, to say
   gracious, kind, and civil words, and, in spite of inclination, to do
   what reason requires as to words and works of charity, gentleness and
   condescension. We may be excused for not being always bright, for one
   is not master of cheerfulness to have it when one will; but we are not
   excusable for not being always gracious, yielding and considerate; for
   this is always in the power of our will, and we have only to determine
   to keep down the contrary humour and inclination.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [578] 2 Cor. vii. 10.

   [579] Phil. iii. 18.

   [580] Tob. v. 12.

   [581] 2 Cor. vii. 10.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

BOOK XII.

CONTAINING CERTAIN COUNSELS FOR THE PROGRESS OF THE SOUL IN HOLY LOVE.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER I.

   THAT OUR PROGRESS IN HOLY LOVE DOES NOT DEPEND ON OUR NATURAL
   TEMPERAMENT.

   A great religious of our age has written that our natural temperament
   much conduces to contemplative love, and that such as are of an
   affectionate and loving nature are best adapted for it. Now I suppose
   he means not that sacred love is distributed to men or angels according
   to, or much less in virtue of, natural conditions; nor would he say
   that the distribution of divine love is made to men according to their
   natural qualities and abilities: for this were to belie the Scripture,
   and to violate the ecclesiastical canon, by which the Pelagians were
   declared heretics.

   For my part, I speak in this treatise of the supernatural love which
   God out of his goodness pours into our hearts, and whose residence is
   in the supreme point of the spirit; a point which is above all the rest
   of the soul, and independent of all natural disposition. And withal,
   though souls inclined to love have on the one hand a certain propensity
   which makes them more ready to desire to love God, they are, on the
   other hand, so subject to set their affections upon lovable creatures,
   that their propensity puts them in as great danger of being diverted
   from the purity of sacred love by a mixture of other loves, as they
   have facility in wishing to love God; for the danger of loving amiss is
   attached to the facility of loving.

   It is true that souls of this kind, being once well purified from the
   love of creatures, work wonders in holy loving, as love finds a great
   facility in diffusing itself throughout all the faculties of the heart:
   and thence proceeds a most delightful sweetness, which appears not in
   those whose souls are peevish, harsh, melancholy and churlish.

   Nevertheless, if two persons, the one of whom is loving and sweet by
   nature, the other harsh and sour, have an equal charity, they will love
   God equally, but not alike. The heart naturally sweet will love more
   easily, more amiably, more sweetly, though not more solidly nor more
   perfectly; yea, the love which shall spring amongst the thorns and
   repugnances of a harsh and dry nature shall be the more noble and
   glorious, as the other shall be more delightsome and lovely.

   It imports not much then, whether one have a natural inclination to
   love, when it is a question of a love which is supernatural and
   exercised supernaturally. Only this, Theotimus, I would gladly cry out
   to all men: O mortals, if you have hearts disposed for love, why do you
   not devote yourselves to celestial and divine love? But if you be hard
   and sour-tempered--since you are wanting in natural love, why do you
   not aspire to supernatural love, which shall be lovingly bestowed upon
   you by him who calls you to his so holy love?

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER II.

   THAT WE ARE TO HAVE A CONTINUAL DESIRE TO LOVE.

   Lay up treasures in heaven. [582] One treasure is not enough for the
   pleasure of this divine, lover, but he desires that we should have so
   much treasure that our treasure may be composed of many treasures; that
   is to say, Theotimus, that we are to have an insatiable desire of
   loving God, adding continually love upon love. What is it that so
   strongly urges the bees to increase their honey but the love they bear
   to it? O heart of my soul, created to love the infinite good, what love
   canst thou desire but this love, which is the most to be desired of all
   loves! Ah! O soul of my heart, what desire canst thou love but the most
   lovely of all desires! O love of sacred desires! O desires of sacred
   love! Oh! how have I coveted to long for thy perfections. [583]

   The disgusted sick man has no appetite for eating, yet has he an
   appetite to have an appetite; he desires no meat, but he desires to
   desire it. Theotimus, to know whether we love God above all things is
   not in our power, unless God himself reveal it unto us: yet we may
   easily know whether we desire to love him; and perceiving the desire of
   holy love in us, we know that we begin to love. It is our sensual and
   animal part which covets to eat, but it is our reasonable part which
   desires this appetite; and because the sensual part does not always
   obey the reasonable part, it frequently happens that we desire appetite
   and cannot have it. But the desire of loving and love depend upon the
   same will: wherefore as soon as we have framed the true desire of
   loving, we begin to have some love; and ever as this desire grows, love
   also increases. He who desires love ardently shall shortly love with
   ardour. Ah! who will give us the grace, Theotimus, that we may burn
   with this desire, which is the desire of the poor, and the preparation
   of their heart, which God willingly hears. [584] He who has no
   assurance of loving God is a poor man, and if he desire to love him he
   is a beggar, but a beggar with the blessed beggary of which Our Saviour
   has said: Blessed are the beggars of spirit; for theirs is the kingdom
   of heaven. [585]

   Such a one was S. Augustine, when he cried out: "O to love! O to run! O
   to die to self! O to get to God!" Such S. Francis, saying: "Let me die
   of thy love, O thou friend of my heart, who hast deigned to die for my
   love." Such S. Catharine of Genoa, and the Blessed Mother (S.) Teresa
   when, panting as the hart pants, and dying with the thirst of divine
   love, they sighed out this word: Ah Lord! give me this water. [586]

   Temporal covetousness, by which we greedily desire earthly treasures,
   is the root of all evil; but spiritual avarice, whereby one sighs
   incessantly after the pure gold of Divine love, is the root of all
   good. He who truly desires love seeks it truly; and he who truly seeks
   it, truly finds it; and he who has truly found it has found the
   fountain of life, whence he shall draw salvation from the Lord. [587]
   Let us cry, night and day, Theotimus: Come, O Holy Spirit! fill the
   hearts of thy faithful, and kindle in them the fire of thy love. O
   heavenly love, when wilt thou fill my soul?

     __________________________________________________________________

   [582] Matt. vi. 20.

   [583] Ps. cxviii. 20.

   [584] Ps. ix. 38.

   [585] Matt. v. 3. From the Greek [Tr.]

   [586] John iv. 15.

   [587] Prov. viii. 35.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER III.

   THAT TO HAVE THE DESIRE OF SACRED LOVE WE ARE TO CUT OFF ALL OTHER
   DESIRES.

   Why do hounds, think you, Theotimus, more ordinarily lose the scent or
   strain of their quarry in the spring-time than at other times? It is,
   as hunters and philosophers say, because the grass and flowers are then
   in their vigour, so that the variety of smells which they send out so
   fills the hounds' sense of smelling that they can neither take nor
   follow the scent of their game, among so many scents which the earth
   exhales. In sooth those souls that ever abound in desires, designs and
   projects, never desire holy celestial love as they ought, nor can
   perceive the delightful strain and scent of the divine beloved, who is
   compared to the roe, and to the little fawn of the doe. [588]

   Lilies have no season, but flower soon or late, as they are deeper or
   less deep set in the ground: for if they be thrust three fingers only
   into the earth they will presently blossom, but if they be put six or
   nine, they come up proportionately later. If the heart that aims after
   Divine love be deeply engaged in terrene and temporal affairs, it will
   bud late and with difficulty; but if it have only so much to do with
   the world as its condition requires, you shall see it bloom timely in
   love, and send out a delicious odour.

   For this cause the Saints betook themselves to deserts, that being
   freed from worldly cares they might more ardently apply to heavenly
   love. For this the spouse shut one of her eyes, [589] to the end that
   she might keep the sight of the other alone more fixedly, and thereby
   take better aim at the very midst of her beloved's heart, which she
   desires to wound with love. And for this same reason she keeps her hair
   so plaited and gathered up in a tress that she seems to have one only
   hair which she makes use of as a chain, to bind and bear away her
   spouse's heart, whom she makes a slave to her love.

   They who desire for good and all to love God, shut up their
   understanding from discoursing of worldly things, to employ it more
   earnestly in the meditation of divine things, and gather up all their
   pretensions under the sole intention which they have of loving only
   God. Whosoever desires something which he desires not for God that much
   less desires God.

   A religious man demanded of the Blessed Giles what he could do most
   grateful to God; and he answered him by singing: "One to one, one to
   one;" that is, one only soul to one only God. So many desires and loves
   in a heart are like many children at one breast, who, as they cannot
   all suck at once, struggle each one for his turn, so that at last the
   fount dries up. He who aspires to heavenly love, must sedulously
   reserve for it his leisure, his spirit and his affections.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [588] Cant. ii. 9.

   [589] Cant. iv. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IV.

   THAT OUR LAWFUL OCCUPATIONS DO NOT HINDER US FROM PRACTICISING DIVINE
   LOVE.

   Curiosity, ambition, disquiet, the not adverting to, or not
   considering, the end for which we are in this world, are the causes why
   we have a thousand times more hindrance than business, more worries
   than work, more occupation than profit: and these are the
   embarrassments, Theotimus, that is, the silly, vain and superfluous
   undertakings with which we charge ourselves, that turn us from the love
   of God, and not the true and lawful exercises of our vocations. David,
   and, after him, S. Louis, in the press of the perils, toils and
   travails which they endured, as well in peace as in war, did not cease
   to sing in truth: What have I in heaven, and besides thee what do I
   desire upon earth? [590] S. Bernard lost none of the progress which he
   desired to make in this holy love, though he were in the courts and
   armies of great princes, where he laboured to bring matters of state to
   the service of God's glory; he changed his habitation, but he changed
   not his heart, nor did his heart change its love, nor his love its
   object; and, to speak his own language, these changes were made in him
   but not of him, since although his employments were very different, yet
   he was indifferent to all employment, and different from them all, not
   receiving the colour of his affairs and conversations, as the chameleon
   does that of the places where it is, but remaining ever wholly united
   to God, ever white in purity, ever red with charity, and ever full of
   humility. I am not ignorant, Theotimus, what the wise man's counsel is:

   He ever flies the court and legal strife

   Who seeks to sow the seeds of holy life

   Rarely do camps effect the soul's increase,

   Virtue and faith are daughters unto peace.

   And the Israelites had good reason to excuse themselves to the
   Babylonians, who urged them to sing the sacred canticles of Sion: How
   shall we sing the song of the Lord in a strange land? [591] But do you
   not also mark that those poor people were not only among the
   Babylonians but were also their captives. Whoever is a slave to courtly
   favours, the prizes of the law, the honours of war,--Alas! all is over
   with him, he cannot sing the hymn of heavenly love. But he who is only
   at court, in war, at the tribunals, by duty--God helps him, and
   heavenly sweetness is as an epithem on his heart, to preserve him from
   the plague which reigns in those places.

   While the plague afflicted the Milanese, S. Charles never made any
   difficulty in frequenting the houses and touching the persons that were
   infected. Yet, Theotimus, he only frequented and touched them, so far
   forth as the necessity of God's work required, nor would he for the
   world have thrust himself into danger without true necessity, lest he
   should commit the sin of tempting God. So that he was never touched
   with any infection, God's Providence preserving him who had so pure a
   confidence in it, that it had no mixture either of fear or rashness. In
   like manner God takes care of those who go not to the court, to the
   bar, to war, except by the necessity of their duty; and in that case a
   man is neither to be so scrupulous as to abandon good and lawful
   affairs by not going, nor so overweening and presumptuous as to go
   thither or stay there without the express necessity of duty and
   affairs.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [590] Ps. lxxii. 25.

   [591] Ps. cxxxvi. 4.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER V.

   A VERY SWEET EXAMPLE ON THIS SUBJECT.

   God is innocent to the innocent, [592] good to the good, cordial to the
   cordial, tender towards the tender, and his love often makes him do
   acts of a sacred and holy fondness (mignardise) towards souls who, out
   of an amorous purity and simplicity, make themselves as little children
   with him.

   Upon a day S. Frances was reciting Our Lady's Office, and, as it
   commonly happens that if there is but one affair in the whole day, it
   presses most at time of prayer, this holy lady was called away by her
   husband for some household matter, and four sundry times thinking to
   take up again the thread of her Office, she was called from it again,
   and constrained to interrupt the same verse, till this blessed affair,
   for which they had so importunately interrupted her prayer, being
   finished at last, when she returned to her Office she found the verse,
   so often left by obedience and so often recommenced by devotion, all
   written in fair golden letters, which her devout companion, Madam
   Vannocia swore she saw the dear Angel-Guardian of the Saint writing, as
   S. Paul afterwards revealed to the Saint herself.

   What sweetness, Theotimus, of this heavenly spouse towards this sweet
   and faithful lover! But meantime you see that necessary employments,
   according to each one's vocation, do not diminish Divine love, but
   increase it, and gild, as it were, the work of devotion. The
   nightingale loves her melody no less when she makes her pauses than
   when she sings; the devout heart loves love no less when she turns to
   exterior necessities than when she prays: her silence and her speech,
   her action and her contemplation, her employment and her rest, equally
   sing in her the hymn of her love.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [592] Ps. xvii. 26.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VI.

   THAT WE ARE TO EMPLOY IN THE PRACTICE OF DIVINE LOVE ALL THE OCCASIONS
   THAT PRESENT THEMSELVES.

   There are souls that make great projects to do excellent services for
   Our Saviour, by eminent actions and extraordinary sufferings, but
   actions and sufferings of which there is no opportunity, and perhaps
   never will be, and who upon this apprehend they have done a great
   matter in love, in which they are very often deceived:--as appears in
   this, that embracing in desire, as seems to them, great future crosses,
   they anxiously avoid the burden of such as are present, which are less.
   Is it not an extreme temptation to be so valiant in imagination, and so
   cowardly in execution?

   Ah! God preserve us from those imaginary fervours, which very often
   breed a vain and secret self-esteem in the bottom of our hearts. Great
   works lie not always in our way, but every moment we may do little ones
   with excellence, that is, with a great love. Behold that Saint, I beg
   you, who bestows a cup of cold water on the thirsty traveller; he does
   but a small matter in outward show, but the intention, the sweetness,
   the love, with which he animates his work is so excellent, that it
   turns this simple water into water of life, and of eternal life.

   The bees gather honey from the lily, the flag, the rose; yet they get
   as ample a booty from the little minute rosemary flowers and thyme; yea
   they draw not only more honey, but even better honey from these, for in
   these little vessels the honey, being more closely locked up, is kept
   better. Truly, in the low and little works of devotion, charity is not
   only practised more frequently, but ordinarily more humbly too, and
   consequently more usefully and more holily.

   Those condescensions to the humours of others, that bearing with the
   clownish and troublesome actions and ways of our neighbour, those
   victories over our own humours and passions, those renouncings of our
   lesser inclinations, that effort against our aversions and repugnances,
   that heartfelt and sweet acknowledgment of our own imperfections, the
   continual pains we take to keep our souls in equality, that love of our
   abjection, that gentle and gracious welcome we give to the contempt and
   censure of our condition, of our life, of our conversation, of our
   actions:--Theotimus, all these things are more profitable to our souls
   than we can conceive, if heavenly love have the management of them. But
   we have already said this to Philothea. [593]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [593] Devout Life, iii. 35.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VII.

   THAT WE MUST TAKE PAINS TO DO OUR ACTIONS VERY PERFECTLY.

   Our Saviour, as the ancients report, was wont to say to his disciples:
   Be good exchangers. If the crown be not good gold, if it want weight,
   if it be not struck with the lawful stamp, it is rejected as not
   current: if a work be not of a good species, if it be not adorned with
   charity, if the intention be not pious, it will not be admitted amongst
   the good works. If I fast, but out of sparingness, my fast is not of a
   good metal; if it be out of temperance, but I have some mortal sin in
   my soul, the work wants weight, for it is charity that gives weight to
   all that we do; if it be only through complaisance, and to accommodate
   myself to my company, the work is not marked with the stamp of a right
   intention: but if I fast out of temperance, and be in the grace of God,
   and have an intention to please his Divine majesty by this temperance,
   the work shall be current money, fit to augment in me the treasure of
   charity.

   To do little actions with a great purity of intention and with a strong
   will to please God, is to do them excellently, and then they greatly
   sanctify us. Some eat much, and yet are ever lean, attenuated and
   languid, because their digestive power is not good; there are others
   who eat little, and yet are always in good plight, and vigorous,
   because their stomach is good. Even so there are some souls that do
   many good works, and yet increase but little in charity, because they
   do them either coldly and negligently, or by natural instinct and
   inclination rather than by Divine inspiration or heavenly fervour; and,
   on the contrary, others there are who get through little work, but do
   it with so holy a will and inclination, that they make a wonderful
   advancement in charity; they have little talent, but they husband it so
   faithfully that the Lord largely rewards them for it.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER VIII.

   A GENERAL MEANS FOR APPLYING OUR WORKS TO GOD'S SERVICE.

   All whatsoever you do in word and in work, do all in the name of Jesus
   Christ. [594] Whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to
   the glory of God. [595] These are the words of the Divine Apostle;
   which, as the great S. Thomas says in explaining them, are sufficiently
   put in practice when we have the habit of holy charity, whereby, though
   we have not an express and set purpose of doing every work for God,
   that intention is implicitly contained in the union and communion we
   have with God, which dedicates all the good we can do, with ourselves,
   to his Divine goodness. It is not necessary that a child, while living
   in the house and under the authority of his father, should declare that
   all he gets is got for his father; for since his person belongs to his
   father, all that depends on it also belongs to him. So it suffices that
   we be God's children by love, to make all that we do entirely directed
   to his glory.

   It is true then, Theotimus, that, as we have said elsewhere, even as
   the olive-tree set near unto the vine imparts unto it its savour, so
   charity being near the other virtues communicates unto them its
   perfection. Yet true it is also that if one engraft a vine upon an
   olive, it not only more perfectly communicates its taste but also makes
   it share in its sap; so do you not content yourself with having
   charity, and together with it the practice of virtues, but endeavour
   that it may be by and for it that you practise them, that they may be
   rightly ascribed unto it.

   When a painter holds and guides a pupil's hand, the stroke that is made
   is principally attributed to the painter, because, though the pupil
   indeed contributed the motion of his hand and application of the brush,
   yet the master also for his part did so mingle his movement with the
   pupil's, giving the touch through him, that to the master is specially
   attributed the honour of whatever is good in the stroke, though yet the
   apprentice is also praised, because of the pliableness with which he
   accommodated his movement to the direction of his master. Oh! how
   excellent are the actions of the virtues when Divine love impresses its
   sacred movement on them, that is, when they are done out of the motive
   of love! But this happens in different ways.

   The motive of Divine love pours forth a particular influence of
   perfection upon the virtuous actions of those who have in a special
   manner dedicated themselves to God to serve him for ever. Such are
   bishops and priests, who by a sacramental consecration, and by a
   spiritual character that cannot be effaced, vow themselves, as branded
   and marked serfs, to the perpetual service of God; such are religious,
   who by their vows, either solemn or simple, are immolated to God in
   quality of living and reasonable sacrifices; such are those who betake
   themselves to pious congregations, dedicating themselves for ever to
   God's glory; further, such are all those who of set purpose produce
   deep and strong resolutions of following the will of God, making for
   this end retreats of some days, that they may stir up their souls by
   divers spiritual exercises to the entire reformation of their life--a
   holy method, and ordinary among the ancient Christians, but since
   almost entirely left off till that great servant of God, Ignatius of
   Loyola, brought it into use again in the time of our fathers.

   I know that some are of opinion, that such a general oblation of
   ourselves does not extend its virtue and carry its influence into the
   actions which we practise afterwards except so far forth as in the
   exercise of them we apply the motive of love in particular, by
   dedicating them in a special manner to the glory of God; yet all
   confess with S. Bonaventure, quoted by every one in this matter, that
   if I have resolved in my heart to give a hundred crowns for God's sake,
   though afterwards I make the distribution of this sum at leisure,
   having my mind distracted and without attention, yet is all the
   distribution made through love, because it proceeds from the first
   intention which Divine love made me make of giving it all.

   But, prithee, Theotimus, what difference is there between him who
   offers a hundred crowns to God, and him who offers all his actions?
   Truly none, save that the one offers a sum of money, and the other a
   sum of actions. And why, I pray, shall they not equally be considered
   to make the distribution of the parts of their sum in virtue of their
   first purposes and fundamental resolutions? And if the one,
   distributing his crowns without attention, fails not to have the
   advantage of that first purpose, why shall not the other, in the
   distribution of his actions, enjoy the fruit of the first intention? He
   who has deliberately made himself a loving servant of his divine
   goodness has, by that act, dedicated to him all his actions.

   Grounding himself upon this truth, every one should once in his life
   make a good retreat, therein to cleanse his soul from all sin, and
   should then make a determined and solid resolution to live wholly to
   God, as we have taught in the first part of the Introduction to a
   Devout Life; and afterwards, at least once every year, he must make the
   review of his conscience and the renewal of the first resolution, which
   we have put down in the fifth part of that work, to which on this point
   I refer you.

   Indeed S. Bonaventure acknowledges that a man who has got so great an
   inclination and custom of well-doing as frequently to do it without any
   special intention, fails not to merit much by such actions; which are
   ennobled by love, because they spring from love as from the root and
   original source of this blessed habit, facility and promptitude.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [594] 1 Cor. x. 31.

   [595] Col. iii. 17.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER IX.

   OF CERTAIN OTHER MEANS BY WHICH WE MAY APPLY OUR WORKS MORE
   PARTICULARLY TO THE LOVE OF GOD.

   When pea-hens hatch in very white places their young ones are also
   white: and when our intentions are in the love of God whilst we project
   some good work, or undertake some vocation, all the actions that issue
   thence take their worth and derive their nobility from the love whence
   they have their origin; for who does not see that the actions which are
   proper to my vocation and requisite to my design depend on this first
   election and resolution which I have made?

   Yet, Theotimus, one must not stay there; but to make excellent progress
   in devotion, we must not only in the beginning of our conversion, and
   afterwards every year, address all our life and all our actions to God,
   but we must also offer them to him every day following the Morning
   Exercise which we have taught Philothea; for in this daily renewing of
   our oblation, we spread the vigour and virtue of love upon our actions
   by a fresh uniting of our heart with the Divine glory, by means whereof
   it is ever more and more sanctified.

   Besides this, let us a hundred and a hundred times a day unite our life
   to Divine love by the practice of ejaculatory prayers, elevations of
   heart and spiritual retirements; for these holy exercises, casting and
   lifting our spirits continually into God, bear also up to him all our
   actions. And how could it be, I pray you, that a soul who at every
   moment darts up unto the Divine goodness, and who incessantly breathes
   words of love, in order to keep her heart always lodged in the bosom of
   her heavenly Father, should not be considered to do all her works in
   God and for God?

   She who says: "Ah! Lord, I am thine--My beloved is wholly mine, and I,
   I am all his--My God, thou art my all--O Jesus thou art my life--Ah!
   who will do me the favour that I may die to myself, that I may live
   only to thee--O to love! to advance! to die to self! O to live to God!
   O to be in God! O God, whatsoever is not thy very self is nothing to
   me!"--she, I say, does she not continually dedicate her actions to her
   heavenly spouse? O how blessed is the soul who has once for all made
   the offstripping and the perfect resignation of herself in and into the
   hands of God, whereof we have spoken above!--for afterwards she will
   only need to make one little sigh and one look at God, to renew and
   confirm her offstripping, resignation, and oblation, together with the
   protestation that she wishes nothing but God and for God, and neither
   loves herself nor anything in the world save in God and for the love of
   God.

   The exercise then of continual aspirations is very useful for vivifying
   all our works with love; but especially does it most abundantly suffice
   for the small and ordinary actions of our life; for as to heroic works
   and matters of consequence, it is expedient, if we intend to make any
   great profit, to use the ensuing method, as I have already in brief
   declared elsewhere. [596]

   Let us in these occurrences elevate our heart and spirit to God; let us
   with deep consideration and extended thought ponder on eternity, so
   holy and so glorious; let us behold how throughout eternity the Divine
   goodness tenderly cherished us, preparing all suitable means for our
   salvation and progress in his love, and in particular the chance of
   doing the good which now presents itself to us, or suffering the evil
   which has come upon us: this done, spreading out, if I may so speak,
   and lifting up, the arms of our consent, let us embrace dearly,
   fervently and most amorously, the good that presents itself to be done,
   or the evil that must be suffered, in consideration of this that it has
   been eternally willed by God, to please him and to obey his Providence.

   Behold the great S. Charles, when the plague attacked his diocese. He
   lifted up his heart to God, and reflected attentively that in the
   eternity of Divine Providence, this scourge was prepared and determined
   for his flock, and that the same Providence had ordained that in this
   their scourge he should take a most tender care to serve, solace and
   cordially assist the afflicted, since in this occurrence he found
   himself the ghostly father, pastor and bishop of that province.
   Whereupon, representing to himself the greatness of the pains, toils
   and hazards which it would be incumbent on him to undergo in that
   behalf, he immolated himself in spirit to God's good-pleasure, and
   tenderly kissing this his cross, he cried from the bottom of his heart,
   in imitation of S. Andrew: "I salute thee, O precious cross, I salute
   thee, O blessed tribulation! O holy affliction, how delightful thou
   art, since thou didst issue from the loving breast of this Father of
   eternal mercy, who willed thee from all eternity, and ordained thee for
   my dear people and me! O cross, my heart wills thee, since the heart of
   my God has willed thee; O cross, my soul cherishes and embraces thee,
   with its whole affection!"

   In this sort we are to undertake the gravest affairs, and to meet the
   sharpest tribulations that can befal us. But if they prove to be of
   long continuance, we must from time to time, and very frequently,
   repeat this exercise, that we may more profitably continue our union
   with God's good will and pleasure, pronouncing this short yet wholly
   divine protestation of his Son; Yea, eternal Father, for so it hath
   seemed good in thy sight. [597] O God, Theotimus, what treasures are in
   this practice!

     __________________________________________________________________

   [596] Book viii. 14.

   [597] Matt. xi. 26.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER X.

   AN EXHORTATION TO THE SACRIFICE WHICH WE ARE TO MAKE TO GOD OF OUR
   FREE-WILL.

   I Add to the sacrifice of S. Charles that of the great patriarch
   Abraham, as a lively image of the most strong and loyal love that could
   be imagined in any creature.

   Certainly he sacrificed all the strongest natural inclinations he could
   have had, when, hearing the voice of God saying to him: Go forth out of
   thy country, and from thy kindred, and out of thy father's house, and
   come into the land which I shall show thee, [598] he went forth at
   once, and with speed put himself upon the way, not knowing whither he
   went. [599] The dear love of country, the sweetness of the society of
   his kindred, the pleasures of his father's house, did not shake his
   constancy; he departs boldly and with fervour, and goes whither it
   shall please God to conduct him. What abnegation, Theotimus, what
   renunciation! One cannot perfectly love God unless one forsake
   affections for perishable things.

   But this is nothing in comparison with what he did afterwards, when
   God, calling him twice, and seeing his promptitude in answering, said
   to him: Take thy only-begotten son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and go into
   the land of vision: and there thou shalt offer him for a holocaust upon
   one of the mountains which I will show thee. [600] For behold this
   great man, setting out immediately with his so loved and amiable son,
   goes three days' journey, comes to the foot of the mountain, leaves
   there his servant and ass, loads his son Isaac with the wood necessary
   for the holocaust, himself carrying the sword and the fire; and as he
   ascends, this dear child says to him: My father; and he answers: What
   wilt thou, son. Behold, saith he, fire and wood, but where is the
   victim for the holocaust? And Abraham said: God will provide himself a
   victim for the holocaust, my son. And meanwhile they arrive at the top
   of the appointed mountain, where Abraham now constructs an altar, lays
   the wood in order upon it, binds his Isaac, and places him upon the
   pile; he extends his right hand, lays hold of and prepares his sword,
   lifts his arm, and as he is ready to despatch the blow in order to
   immolate the child, the angel calls to him from above: Abraham,
   Abraham. And he answered: Here I am. And the angel said to him: Lay not
   thy hand upon the boy. It is enough: Now I know that thou fearest God,
   and least not spared thy only-begotten son for my sake. Upon this Isaac
   is untied, Abraham takes a ram which he finds hanging by the horns in
   the brambles, and sacrifices it.

   Theotimus, he who looketh on his neighbour's wife, to lust after her,
   hath already committed adultery with her in his heart, [601] and he who
   bindeth his son in order to immolate him has already sacrificed him in
   his heart. Behold then, for God's love, what a holocaust this holy man
   offered in his heart! Incomparable sacrifice, which one cannot fully
   estimate, nor yet praise to the full! My God! who is able to discern,
   which of the two loves was greater--Abraham's, who to please God
   sacrifices so amiable a child, or this child's, who to please God is
   quite willing to be sacrificed, and to that end permits himself to be
   bound, and extended upon the wood, and as a tender little lamb,
   peaceably awaits death's blow from the dear hand of his good father?

   For my part, I prefer the father in longanimity, yet dare I withal
   boldly give the prize of magnanimity to the son: for on the one side it
   is indeed a marvel, but not so great a one, that Abraham, already old
   and accomplished in the science of loving God, and fortified with the
   late vision and word of God, should make this last effort of loyalty
   and love towards a master whose sweetness and providence he had so
   often tasted and relished; but to see Isaac, in the spring-time of his
   age, as yet a mere novice and apprentice in the art of loving his God,
   offer himself, upon the simple word of his father, to the sword and the
   flame to become a holocaust of obedience to the Divine will, is a thing
   that passes all admiration.

   Yet, on the other side, do you not see, Theotimus, that Abraham tosses
   and turns in his soul, more than three days, the bitter thought and
   resolution of this sharp sacrifice? Do you not feel compassion for his
   fatherly heart, when, ascending alone with his son, this child, simpler
   than a dove, said unto him: Father, where is the victim? and he
   answered him: God will provide for that, my son. Do you not think that
   the sweetness of this child, carrying the wood upon his shoulders, and
   piling it afterwards upon the altar, made his father's bowels melt with
   tenderness? O heart which the angels admire and God magnifies! O
   Saviour Jesus, when shall it then be, that having sacrificed to thee
   all that we have, we shall also offer up to thee all that we are? When
   shall we offer unto thee our free-will, the only child of our spirit?
   When shall we extend and tie it upon the funeral pile of thy cross, of
   thy thorns, of thy lance, that as a little lamb, it may be a grateful
   victim of thy good pleasure, to die and to burn with the flame, and by
   the sword, of thy holy love?

   O free-will of my heart, how good a thing were it for thee to be bound
   and extended upon the cross of thy divine Saviour! How desirable a
   thing it is to die to thyself, to burn for ever a holocaust to the
   Lord! Theotimus, our free-will is never so free as when it is a slave
   to the will of God, nor ever so much a slave as when it serves our own
   will. It never has so much life as when it dies to itself, nor ever so
   much death, as when it lives to itself.

   We have freedom to do good or evil; yet to make choice of evil, is not
   to use, but to abuse our freedom. Let us renounce this miserable
   liberty, and let us for ever subject our free-will to the rule of
   heavenly love: let us become slaves of love, whose serfs are more happy
   than kings. And if ever our soul should offer to employ her liberty
   against our resolutions of serving God eternally and without
   reserve,--Oh! in that case, for God's sake, let us sacrifice our
   free-will, and make it die to itself that it may live to God! He that
   would for self-love keep it in this world shall lose it in the other,
   and he that shall lose it in this world for the love of God, shall keep
   it, for the same love, in the other. He that gives it liberty in this
   world shall find it a serf and slave in the other, and he that shall
   make it serve the cross in this world shall have it free in the other,
   where being in the fruition of the Divine goodness, liberty will be
   converted into love, and love into liberty--a liberty of infinite
   sweetness:--without effort, pain, or any repugnance we shall
   unchangeably, for ever, love the Creator and Saviour of our souls.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [598] Gen. xii. 1.

   [599] Heb. xi. 8.

   [600] Gen. xxii. 1.

   [601] Matt. v. 28.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XI.

   THE MOTIVES WE HAVE OF HOLY LOVE.

   S. Bonaventure, Father Louis of Granada, Father Louis de Ponte, Father
   Diego di Stella, have sufficiently discoursed upon this subject. I will
   only sum up those points on which I have touched in this treatise.

   The divine goodness considered in itself is not only the first motive
   of all, but also the greatest, the most noble and most mighty. For it
   is that which ravishes the Blessed, and crowns their felicity. How can
   one have a heart, and yet not love so infinite a goodness? This subject
   is treated to some extent in chapters i. and ii. of Book II., and from
   chapter viii. to the and of Book III., and in chapter ix. of Book X.

   The second motive is that of God's natural Providence towards us, of
   creation and preservation, as we say in chapter iii. of Book II.

   The third motive is that of God's supernatural Providence over us, and
   of the Redemption he has prepared for us, as is explained in chapters
   iv., v., vi., vii., of Book II.

   The fourth motive is to consider how God brings to effect this
   Providence and Redemption, giving every one all the graces and
   assistances required for salvation; which we handle in Book II., from
   chapter viii., and in Book III., from the beginning to chapter vi.

   The fifth motive is the eternal glory which the Divine goodness has
   provided for us, which is the crown of God's benefits towards us: of
   which we have said something from chapter ix. to the end of Book III.

     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XII.

   A MOST USEFUL METHOD OF EMPLOYING THESE MOTIVES.

   Now to receive from these motives a profound and strong heat of love,
   it is necessary,  1°, that after having considered one of them in a
   general way, we apply it in particular to ourselves. For example: O how
   amiable this great God is, who out of his infinite goodness gave his
   son for the whole world's redemption! Yes, indeed for all in general,
   but in particular for me, who am the first of sinners. [602] Ah! he
   hath loved me, yea, I say, he hath loved even me, even me myself, such
   as I am, and delivered himself to his Passion for me. [603]

   2°. We must consider the Divine benefits in their first and eternal
   source. O God! Theotimus, what love can we have sufficiently worthy of
   the infinite goodness of our Creator, who from all eternity determined
   to create, preserve, govern, redeem, save and glorify all in general
   and each in particular? Ah! what was I then when I was not? What was I?
   who now being something am yet but a simple and poor worm of the earth?
   And still God from the abyss of his eternity thought thoughts of
   benediction in my behalf? He considered and designed, yea determined,
   the hour of my birth, of my baptism, of all the inspirations that he
   would bestow upon me; in a word, all the benefits he would do and offer
   me. Ah! is there a sweetness like unto this sweetness?

   3°. We must consider the Divine benefits in their second and
   meritorious source; for do you not know, Theotimus, that the High
   Priest of the Law wore upon his back, and upon his bosom, the names of
   the children of Israel, that is, the precious stones upon which the
   names of the chiefs of Israel were engraven? Ah! behold Jesus our chief
   bishop, and see how, from the instant of his conception, he bore us
   upon his shoulders, undertaking the charge of redeeming us by his
   death, even the death of the cross. O Theotimus, Theotimus, this soul
   of Our Saviour knew us all by name and by surname; but above all in the
   day of his Passion, when he offered his tears, his prayers, his blood
   and his life for all, he breathed in particular for thee these thoughts
   of love: Ah! my eternal Father, I take to myself and charge myself with
   all poor Theotimus's sins, to undergo torments and death that he may be
   freed from them, and that he may not perish but live. Let me die, so he
   may live; let me be crucified so he may be glorified. O sovereign love
   of the Heart of Jesus, what heart can ever bless thee as devotedly as
   it ought!

   Thus within his maternal breast his divine heart foresaw, disposed,
   merited and obtained all the benefits we have, not only in general for
   all, but also in particular for each one, and his breasts of sweetness
   provided for us the milk of his influences, his attractions, his
   inspirations, and the sweetnesses by which he draws, conducts and
   nourishes our hearts to eternal life. Benefits do not inflame us unless
   we behold the eternal will which destines them for us, and the Heart of
   Our Saviour who has merited them for us by so many pains, especially in
   his death and passion.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [602] 1 Tim. i. 15.

   [603] Gal. ii. 20.
     __________________________________________________________________

  CHAPTER XIII.

   THAT MOUNT CALVARY IS THE ACADEMY OF LOVE.

   And at last, as our conclusion,--the death and passion of Our Lord is
   the sweetest and most constraining motive that can animate our hearts
   in this mortal life: and it is the very truth, that mystical bees make
   their most excellent honey within the wounds of this Lion of the tribe
   of Judah, slain, rent and torn upon the Mount of Calvary. And the
   children of the cross glory in their admirable problem, which the world
   understands not: Out of death, the eater of all, has come forth the
   meat of our consolation; and out of death, strong above all, has come
   forth the sweetness of the honey of our love. [604] O Jesus, my
   Saviour, how love-worthy is thy death, since it is the sovereign effect
   of thy love!

   So, in the glory of heaven above, next to the Divine goodness known and
   considered in itself, Our Saviour's death shall most powerfully ravish
   the blessed spirits in the loving of God. As a sign whereof, in the
   Transfiguration, where we have a glimpse of heaven, Moses and Elias
   talked with Our Saviour of the Excess [605] which he was to accomplish
   in Jerusalem. But of what excess, if not of that excess of love by
   which life was forced from the lover, to be bestowed on the
   well-beloved? So that in the eternal canticle I imagine to myself that
   this joyous exclamation will be repeated every moment:

   Live, Jesus live, whose death doth prove,

   The might supreme of heavenly love.

   Theotimus, Mount Calvary is the mount of lovers. All love that takes
   not its beginning from Our Saviour's Passion is frivolous and
   dangerous. Unhappy is death without the love of the Saviour, unhappy is
   love without the death of the Saviour! Love and death are so mingled in
   the Passion of Our Saviour that we cannot have the one in our heart
   without the other. Upon Calvary one cannot have life without love, nor
   love without the death of Our Redeemer. But, except there, all is
   either eternal death or eternal love: and all Christian wisdom consists
   in choosing rightly; and to assist you in that, I have made this
   treatise, my Theotimus.

   During this mortal life we must choose eternal love or eternal death,
   there is no middle choice.

   O eternal love, my soul desires and makes choice of thee eternally! Ah!
   come, Holy Spirit and inflame our hearts with thy love! To love or to
   die! To die and to love! To die to all other love in order to live to
   Jesus's love, that we may not die eternally, but that, living in thy
   eternal love, O Saviour of our souls we may eternally sing: Vive Jésus!
   I love Jesus. Live Jesus whom I love! I love Jesus, who lives and
   reigns for ever and ever. Amen.

   May these things, Theotimus, which by the grace and help of charity
   have been written to your charity, so take root in your heart that this
   charity may find in you the fruit of good works, not the leaves of
   praises. Amen. Blessed be God! And thus I close this whole treatise in
   the words with which S. Augustine ended an admirable sermon on charity,
   which he made before an illustrious assembly.








   THE END.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [604] Judges xiv. 14.

   [605] Excessum, Luke ix. 31.
     __________________________________________________________________




   If you have enjoyed this book, consider making your next selection from
   among the following . . .

   The Catholic Controversy. St. Francis de Sales. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   Sermons on Prayer. St. Francis de Sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           4.00

   Sermons on Our Lady. St. Francis de Sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           10.00

   Sermons for Advent & Christmas. St. Francis de Sales . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.00

   Sermons for Lent. St. Francis de Sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           12.00

   Intro. To/Devout Life. St. Francis de Sales. Unabridged. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           10.00

   Intro. To/Devout Life. St. Francis de Sales. Abridged.. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           12.00

   On the Preacher and Preaching. St. Francis de Sales. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           9.00

   Ven. Francisco Marto of Fatima. Cirrincione, comp . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.50

   Ven. Jacinta Marto of Fatima. Cirrincione. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . .
                                                                           2.00

   St. Philomena--The Wonder-Worker. O'Sullivan . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.00

   The Facts About Luther. Msgr. Patrick O'Hare. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           16.50

   Little Catechism of the Curé of Ars. St. John Vianney. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           6.00

   The Curé of Ars--Patron Saint of Parish Priests. Fr. B. O'Brien. . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           5.50

   Saint Teresa of Avila. William Thomas Walsh. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           21.50

   Isabella of Spain: The Last Crusader. William Thomas Walsh. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           20.00

   Characters of the Inquisition. William Thomas Walsh. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   Blood-Drenched Altars--Cath. Comment. on Hist. Mexico. Kelley. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           20.00

   The Four Last Things--Death, Judgment, Hell, Heaven. Fr. von Cochem. .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.00

   Confession of a Roman Catholic. Paul Whitcomb. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.50

   The Catholic Church Has the Answer. Paul Whitcomb. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.50

   The Sinner's Guide. Ven. Louis of Granada. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
                                                                           12.00

   True Devotion to Mary. St. Louis De Montfort. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.00

   Life of St. Anthony Mary Claret. Fanchón Royer. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   Autobiography of St. Anthony Mary Claret. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . .
                                                                           13.00

   I Wait for You. Sr. Josefa Menendez. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           .75

   Words of Love. Menendez, Betrone, Mary of the Trinity. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           6.00

   Little Lives of the Great Saints. John O'Kane Murray. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           18.00

   Prayer--The Key to Salvation. Fr. Michael Müller. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.50

   Passion of Jesus and Its Hidden Meaning. Fr. Groenings, S.J. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   The Victories of the Martyrs. St. Alphonsus Liguori. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           10.00

   Canons and Decrees of the Council of Trent. Transl. Schroeder. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   Sermons of St. Alphonsus Liguori for Every Sunday. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           16.50

   A Catechism of Modernism. Fr. J. B. Lemius. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           5.00

   Alexandrina--The Agony and the Glory. Johnston. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           5.00

   Life of Blessed Margaret of Castello. Fr. William Bonniwell. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.50

   The Ways of Mental Prayer. Dom Vitalis Lehody. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           14.00

   Catechism of Mental Prayer. Simler. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           2.00

   Fr. Paul of Moll. van Speybrouck. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           11.00

   St. Francis of Paola. Simi and Segreti. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           8.00

   Abortion: Yes or No? Dr. John L. Grady, M.D. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           2.00

   The Story of the Church. Johnson, Hannan, Dominica. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           16.50

   Reign of Christ the King. Davies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.25

   Hell Quizzes. Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.00

   Indulgence Quizzes. Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.00

   Purgatory Quizzes. Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.00

   Virgin and Statue Worship Quizzes. Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.00

   The Holy Eucharist. St. Alphonsus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           10.00

   Meditation Prayer on Mary Immaculate. Padre Pio. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.25

   Little Book of the Work of Infinite Love. de la Touche . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.00

   Textual Concordance of The Holy Scriptures. Williams . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          35.00

   Douay-Rheims Bible. Leatherbound . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          35.00

   The Way of Divine Love. (pocket, unabr.). Menendez . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          8.50

   Mystical City of God--Abridged. Ven. Mary of Agreda . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.50

   Moments Divine--Before the Blessed Sacrament. Reuter . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          8.50

   Miraculous Images of Our Lady. Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          20.00

   Miraculous Images of Our Lord. Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          13.50

   Raised from the Dead. Fr. Hebert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          16.50

   Life and Work of Mother Louise Margaret. Fr. O'Connell. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          12.50

   Autobiography of St. Margaret Mary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Thoughts and Sayings of St. Margaret Mary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   The Voice of the Saints. Comp. by Francis Johnston . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          6.00

   The 12 Steps to Holiness and Salvation. St. Alphonsus . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          7.50

   The Rosary and the Crisis of Faith. Cirrincione & Nelson . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.00

   Sin and Its Consequences. Cardinal Manning . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          6.00

   Fourfold Sovereignty of God. Cardinal Manning . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Dialogue of St. Catherine of Siena. Transl. Algar Thorold . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Catholic Answer to Jehovah's Witnesses. D'Angelo . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Twelve Promises of the Sacred Heart. (100 cards). . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Life of St. Aloysius Gonzaga. Fr. Meschler. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          12.00

   The Love of Mary. D. Roberto. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          8.00

   Begone Satan. Fr. Vogl. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          3.00

   The Prophets and Our Times. Fr. R. G. Culleton . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          12.50

   St. Therese, The Little Flower. John Beevers. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          6.00

   St. Joseph of Copertino. Fr. Angelo Pastrovicchi . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          6.00

   Mary, The Second Eve. Cardinal Newman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.50

   Devotion to Infant Jesus of Prague. Booklet . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          .75

   Reign of Christ the King in Public & Private Life. Davies . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.25

   The Wonder of Guadalupe. Francis Johnston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          7.50

   Apologetics. Msgr. Paul Glenn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Baltimore Catechism No. 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          3.50

   Baltimore Catechism No. 2. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          4.50

   Baltimore Catechism No.3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          8.00

   An Explanation of the Baltimore Catechism. Fr. Kinkead. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          16.50

   Bethlehem. Fr. Faber. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.00

   Bible History. Schuster. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Blessed Eucharist. Fr. Mueller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . .
                                                                          9.00

   Catholic Catechism. Fr. Faerber. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .
                                                                          7.00

   The Devil. Fr. Delaporte. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          6.00

   Dogmatic Theology for the Laity. Fr. Premm. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          20.00

   Evidence of Satan in the Modern World. Cristiani. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Fifteen Promises of Mary. (100 Cards). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Life of Anne Catherine Emmerich. 2 vols. Schmoeger. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          37.50

   Life of the blessed Virgin Mary. Emmerich. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          16.50

   Manual of Practical Devotion to St. Joseph. Patrignani. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          15.00

   Prayer to St. Michael. (100 leaflets). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Prayerbook of Favorite Litanies. Fr. Hebert. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Preparation for Death. (Abridged). St. Alphonsus. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          8.00

   Purgatory Explained. (pocket, unabr.). Schouppe. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          9.00

   Fundamentals of Catholic Dogma. Ludwig Ott. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          21.00

   Spiritual Conferences. Tauler. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          13.00

   Trustful Surrender to Divine Providence. Bl. Claude. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Wife, Mother and Mystic. Bessieres. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          8.00

   The Agony of Jesus. Padre Pio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.50

   Sermons of the Curé of Ars. Vianney. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          12.50

   St. Antony of the Desert. St. Athanasius. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Is It a Saint's Name? Fr. William Dunne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.50

   St. Pius V--His Life, times, Miracles. Anderson. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Who is Therese Neumann? Fr. Charles Carty. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.00

   Martyrs of the Coliseum. Fr. O'Reilly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.50

   Way of the Cross. St. Alphonsus Liguori . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.00

   Way of the Cross. Franciscan version. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.00

   How Christ Said the First Mass. Fr. Meagher. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.50

   Too Busy for God? Think Again! D'Angelo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   St. Bernadette Soubirous. Trochu. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.50

   Passion and Death of Jesus Christ. Liguori. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Confession Quizzes. Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.00

   St. Philip Neri. Fr. V. J. Matthews. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.50

   The Old World and America. Rev. Philip Furlong. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.00

   Prophecy for Today. Edward Connor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.50

   The Book of Infinite Love. Mother de la Touche. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   The Church Teaches. Church Documents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          16.50

   Conversation with Christ. Peter T. Rohrbach. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Purgatory and Heaven. J. P. Arendzen. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Liberalism Is a Sin. Sarda y Salvany. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          7.50

   Spiritual Legacy of Sr. Mary of the Trinity. van den Broek. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   The Creator and the Creature. Fr. Frederick Faber. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          16.50

   Radio Replies. 3 vols. Frs. Rumble and Carty. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          36.00

   Convert's Catechism of Catholic Doctrine. Fr. Geiermann. . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          3.00

   Incarnation, Birth, Infancy of Jesus Christ. St. Alphonsus. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Light and Peace. Fr. R. P. Quadrupani. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          7.00

   Dogmatic Canons & Decrees of Trent, Vat. I. Documents. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          9.50

   The Evolution Hoax Exposed. A. N. Field. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          6.00

   The Primitive Church. Fr. D. I. Lanslots. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   The Priest, the Man of God. St. Joseph Cafasso. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          12.50

   Blessed Sacrament. Fr. Frederick Faber. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.50

   Christ Denied. Fr. Paul Wickens. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.50

   New Regulations on Indulgences. Fr. Winfrid Herbst. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.50

   A Tour of the Summa. Msgr. Paul Glenn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          18.00

   Spiritual Conferences. Fr. Frederick Faber. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          15.00

   Latin Grammar. Scanlon and Scanlon. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          16.50

   A Brief Life of Christ. Fr. Rumble. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.00

   Marriage Quizzes. Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.00

   True Church Quizzes. Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          1.00

   The Secret of the Rosary. St. Louis De Montfort. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          3.00

   Mary, Mother of the Church. Church Documents. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          4.00

   The Sacred Heart and the Priesthood. de la Touche. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          9.00

   Revelations of St. Bridget. St. Bridget of Sweden. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          3.00

   Magnificent Prayers. St. Bridget of Sweden. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          2.00

   The Happiness of Heaven. Fr. J. Boudreau. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          8.00

   St. Catherine Labouré of the Miraculous Medal. Dirvin. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          13.50

   The Glories of Mary. (pocket, unabr.). St. Alphonsus Liguori. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          10.00

   Freemasonry: Mankind's Hidden Enemy. Bro. C. Madden. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                          5.00

   Novena of Holy Communions. Lovasik. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           2.00

   Brief Catechism for Adults. Cogan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           9.00

   The Cath. Religon--Illus./Expl. for Child, Adult, Convert. Burbach. . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           9.00

   Eucharistic Miracles. Joan Carroll Cruz. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   The Incorruptibles. Joan Carroll Cruz. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           13.50

   Pope St. Pius X. F. A. Forbes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           8.00

   St. Alphonsus Liguori. Frs. Miller and Aubin. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           16.50

   Self-Abandonment to Divine Providence. Fr. de Caussade, S.J.. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           18.00

   The Song of Songs--A Mystical Exposition. Fr. Arintero, O.P.. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           20.00

   Prophecy for Today. Edward Connor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           5.50

   Saint Michael and the Angels. Approved Sources. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.00

   Dolorous Passion of Our Lord. Anne C. Emmerich. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           16.50

   Modern Saints--Their Lives & Faces, Book I. Ann Ball. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           18.00

   Modern Saints--Their Lives & Faces, Book II. Ann Ball. . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           20.00

   Our Lady of Fatima's Peace Plan from Heaven. Booklet. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           .75

   Divine Favors Granted to St. Joseph. Père Binet. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           5.00

   St. Joseph Cafasso--Priest of the Gallows. St. John Bosco. . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           4.50

   Catechism of the Council of Trent. McHugh/Callan. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           24.00

   The Foot of the Cross. Fr. Faber. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           16.50

   The Rosary in Action. John Johnson. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           9.00

   Padre Pio--The Stigmatist. Fr. Charles Carty. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   Why Squander Illness? Frs. Rumble & Carty. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           2.00

   The Sacred Heart and the Priesthood. de la Touche. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           9.00

   Fatima--The Great Sign. Francis Johnston. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           8.00

   Heliotropium--Conformity of Human Will to Divine. Drexelius. . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           13.00

   Charity for the Suffering Souls. Fr. John Nageleisen. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           16.50

   Devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus. Verheylezoon. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   Who is Padre Pio? Radio Replies Press. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.50

   Child's Bible History. Knecht. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           4.00

   The Stigmata and Modern Science. Fr. Charles Carty. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           1.25

   The Life of Christ. 4 Vols. H.B. Anne C. Emmerich. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           60.00

   St. Anthony--The Wonder Worker of Padua. Stoddard. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           5.00

   The Precious Blood. Fr. Faber. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           13.50

   The Holy Shroud & Four Visions. Fr. O'Connell. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           2.00

   Clean Love in Courtship. Fr. Lawrence Lovasik. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           2.50

   The Prophecies of St. Malachy. Peter Bander. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.00

   St. Martin de Porres. Giuliana Cavallini. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           12.50

   The Secret of the Rosary. St. Louis De Montfort. . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           3.00

   The History of the Antichrist. Rev. P. Huchede. . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           4.00

   St. Catherine of Siena. Alice Curtayne. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           13.50

   Where We Got the Bible. Fr. Henry Graham. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           6.00

   Hidden Treasure--Holy Mass. St. Leonard. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           5.00

   Imitation of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. Fr. Arnoudt. . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   The Life & Glories of St. Joseph. Edward Thompson. . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           15.00

   Père Lamy. Biver. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           10.00

   Humility of Heart. Fr. Cajetan da Bergamo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           8.50

   The Curé D'Ars. Abbé Francis Trochu. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           21.50

   Love, Peace and Joy. (St. Gertrude). Prévot. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           7.00

   The Three Ways of the Spiritual Life. Garrigou-Lagrange, O.P.. . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                           6.00

   Prices subject to change.


   At your Bookdealer or direct from the Publisher.

   Call Toll-Free 1-800-437-5876.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    Indexes
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Scripture References

   Genesis

   [1]1:11   [2]1:14   [3]1:31   [4]2:7   [5]2:10   [6]3:16   [7]4:7
   [8]4:7   [9]12:1   [10]15:6   [11]16:6   [12]17:1   [13]17:1
   [14]17:17   [15]21:16   [16]21:16   [17]22:1   [18]24:12-14
   [19]24:63   [20]25:23   [21]27:27   [22]27:27   [23]28:16   [24]29:11
   [25]30   [26]30:1   [27]30:1   [28]32:30   [29]37   [30]37:35
   [31]39:8   [32]41:40   [33]45:8   [34]45:28   [35]46:30   [36]48:16
   [37]49:11   [38]50:17   [39]50:20

   Exodus

   [40]19:19   [41]34:14

   Leviticus

   [42]11:3   [43]11:44

   Numbers

   [44]17:8

   Deuteronomy

   [45]5:9   [46]6:4-5   [47]8:6

   Joshua

   [48]1:8

   Judges

   [49]13:18   [50]14   [51]14:14

   1 Kingdoms

   [52]2:10   [53]14:1   [54]18:1

   2 Kingdoms

   [55]1:26   [56]1:26   [57]23

   1 Kings

   [58]1:15   [59]18:1

   2 Kings

   [60]15   [61]18:5   [62]23:25

   Job

   [63]1:21   [64]1:21   [65]1:21   [66]2:10   [67]2:10   [68]14:2
   [69]14:2   [70]17:11   [71]21:14   [72]42:10

   Psalms

   [73]1:3   [74]1:11   [75]2:10-11   [76]4:5   [77]4:6   [78]5:8
   [79]7   [80]9:38   [81]9:38   [82]15   [83]15:2   [84]15:11
   [85]17:26   [86]18:6   [87]18:8   [88]18:10   [89]21:15   [90]22
   [91]24:15   [92]26:4   [93]26:6   [94]26:8   [95]29:6   [96]32:6
   [97]33:1-2   [98]33:4   [99]35:10   [100]37:4   [101]38:13
   [102]39:9   [103]41:1   [104]41:1-2   [105]41:3   [106]41:3
   [107]41:4   [108]44:6   [109]44:10   [110]44:10   [111]47:14
   [112]50:4   [113]50:13   [114]54:7   [115]54:23   [116]56:8-9
   [117]58:7   [118]61   [119]62:9   [120]64:1   [121]70:9   [122]72
   [123]72:23-24   [124]72:24   [125]72:24   [126]72:25   [127]72:25
   [128]72:25   [129]72:25-26   [130]72:25-26   [131]73:23   [132]77:9
   [133]77:39   [134]77:39   [135]80:11   [136]83:1   [137]83:5
   [138]83:6   [139]91:13-14   [140]99   [141]100:1   [142]100:8
   [143]102:1   [144]103:15   [145]103:24   [146]104:4   [147]109:3
   [148]111:10   [149]118   [150]118   [151]118:1   [152]118:4
   [153]118:13   [154]118:20   [155]118:53   [156]118:54   [157]118:68
   [158]118:71   [159]118:82   [160]118:97   [161]118:97   [162]118:103
   [163]118:103   [164]118:103   [165]118:112   [166]118:127
   [167]118:137   [168]118:137   [169]118:139   [170]118:163
   [171]118:165   [172]125:1   [173]132   [174]132   [175]132:1-2
   [176]136:4   [177]137:2   [178]138:6   [179]138:14   [180]138:14
   [181]138:21   [182]141   [183]141:8   [184]142:10   [185]143
   [186]144:9   [187]148:5   [188]150:6   [189]158:8

   Proverbs

   [190]1:20-22   [191]1:23   [192]4:18   [193]8:22   [194]8:31
   [195]8:35   [196]13:12   [197]15:14   [198]27:9   [199]31:27
   [200]31:29

   Ecclesiastes

   [201]1:7   [202]19:26

   Song of Solomon

   [203]1   [204]1:1   [205]1:1   [206]1:1   [207]1:1   [208]1:1
   [209]1:1   [210]1:1-2   [211]1:2   [212]1:3   [213]1:3   [214]1:3
   [215]1:3   [216]1:3   [217]1:3   [218]1:4   [219]1:6   [220]1:6
   [221]1:12   [222]1:12   [223]1:12   [224]1:12   [225]1:14   [226]2
   [227]2:2   [228]2:2   [229]2:4   [230]2:7   [231]2:7   [232]2:9
   [233]2:12   [234]2:14   [235]2:14   [236]2:16   [237]2:16   [238]2:16
   [239]3:3   [240]3:4   [241]3:4   [242]3:4   [243]3:4   [244]3:6
   [245]4   [246]4:9   [247]4:9   [248]4:9   [249]4:9   [250]4:9
   [251]5   [252]5:1   [253]5:1   [254]5:2   [255]5:2   [256]5:3
   [257]5:6   [258]5:6   [259]5:6   [260]5:8   [261]5:8   [262]5:8
   [263]5:10   [264]5:10   [265]5:16   [266]5:16   [267]7:1   [268]7:9
   [269]7:10   [270]7:10   [271]7:11   [272]7:11   [273]8:6   [274]8:6
   [275]8:6   [276]8:6   [277]8:6

   Isaiah

   [278]1:5-6   [279]14:12   [280]14:13   [281]20:2   [282]26:18
   [283]28:19   [284]38:14   [285]38:15   [286]41:13   [287]48:8
   [288]53:7   [289]59:11   [290]62:14   [291]66:10-12

   Jeremiah

   [292]2:12   [293]2:13   [294]2:20   [295]9:21   [296]31:3

   Lamentations

   [297]1:1   [298]2:15   [299]2:18

   Ezekiel

   [300]1:12   [301]8:3   [302]8:27   [303]8:30   [304]18:4   [305]18:24
   [306]18:24   [307]18:30   [308]28:2   [309]29:20   [310]29:20
   [311]33:10   [312]33:12   [313]36:26

   Daniel

   [314]3:35   [315]4:24   [316]5:6

   Hosea

   [317]2:14   [318]9:10   [319]11:4   [320]13:9   [321]13:9

   Zephaniah

   [322]1:5

   Malachi

   [323]2:7

   Matthew

   [324]4:17   [325]5:3   [326]5:23-24   [327]5:28   [328]5:48
   [329]6:20   [330]6:20   [331]6:24   [332]8:9   [333]8:17   [334]10:22
   [335]10:28   [336]10:28   [337]11:21   [338]11:26   [339]11:26
   [340]13:12   [341]13:29   [342]16:26   [343]17:4   [344]19:11
   [345]19:21   [346]21:3   [347]21:43   [348]22:37   [349]22:37-38
   [350]24:12   [351]24:30   [352]26:41

   Mark

   [353]5:41   [354]9:23

   Luke

   [355]1:47   [356]2:32   [357]2:35   [358]6:25   [359]6:38   [360]7:47
   [361]9:31   [362]9:54   [363]9:60   [364]10   [365]10:20
   [366]10:41-42   [367]11:27   [368]12:49   [369]12:49   [370]12:50
   [371]15:7   [372]15:32   [373]17:5   [374]24   [375]24:32

   John

   [376]1:9   [377]4:10   [378]4:13   [379]4:14   [380]4:15   [381]4:34
   [382]5:14   [383]6:44   [384]6:44   [385]10:18   [386]14:23
   [387]14:23   [388]14:24   [389]15:5   [390]15:13   [391]17:4
   [392]17:21   [393]19:37   [394]20:13   [395]20:13   [396]21:19

   Acts

   [397]2:2   [398]4:32   [399]4:32   [400]5:15   [401]9:15   [402]12:11
   [403]13:46   [404]13:46   [405]20:26   [406]20:27   [407]20:31
   [408]20:35   [409]24:25   [410]28:4

   Romans

   [411]1:20   [412]1:21   [413]1:21   [414]1:22   [415]2:14   [416]5:5
   [417]5:5   [418]5:5   [419]5:20   [420]5:20   [421]6:6   [422]6:11
   [423]6:12   [424]7:15   [425]7:18   [426]7:23   [427]7:24   [428]7:24
   [429]8:17   [430]8:28   [431]8:38-39   [432]9:2   [433]9:20   [434]11
   [435]11:33-34   [436]12:2   [437]12:21   [438]16:16

   1 Corinthians

   [439]1:27   [440]4:7   [441]4:11   [442]4:58   [443]7:5   [444]7:7
   [445]7:32   [446]9:24   [447]9:24   [448]9:24   [449]10:12
   [450]10:31   [451]13   [452]13   [453]13   [454]13:2   [455]13:2
   [456]13:3   [457]13:3   [458]13:3   [459]13:4   [460]13:7   [461]13:7
   [462]13:12   [463]15:10   [464]15:31   [465]15:41   [466]15:45
   [467]15:46   [468]15:57   [469]15:58   [470]16:13   [471]16:20

   2 Corinthians

   [472]3:5   [473]3:5   [474]4:17   [475]5:14   [476]5:14   [477]5:14
   [478]6:1   [479]6:1   [480]6:4-10   [481]7:10   [482]7:10   [483]9:8
   [484]11:2   [485]11:29   [486]12:9

   Galatians

   [487]2:19   [488]2:20   [489]2:20   [490]2:20   [491]2:20   [492]2:20
   [493]3:13   [494]4:5   [495]5:22   [496]5:24   [497]6:10   [498]6:14
   [499]6:14

   Ephesians

   [500]4:3   [501]4:15

   Philippians

   [502]1:9   [503]1:23   [504]1:23   [505]2:12   [506]2:13   [507]3:8
   [508]3:18

   Colossians

   [509]1:15   [510]1:16   [511]3:3   [512]3:3   [513]3:14   [514]3:14
   [515]3:17

   1 Timothy

   [516]1:9   [517]1:9   [518]1:15   [519]1:15   [520]2:4   [521]2:4
   [522]3:15

   Titus

   [523]3:5

   Hebrews

   [524]6:10   [525]11:8   [526]12:3

   James

   [527]1:15   [528]1:20   [529]2:13   [530]2:13

   1 Peter

   [531]1:12   [532]5:7

   2 Peter

   [533]1:10   [534]3:9

   1 John

   [535]1:3   [536]2:5   [537]2:16   [538]3:14   [539]3:20   [540]4:18
   [541]5:3

   Revelation

   [542]2:4   [543]2:10   [544]2:17   [545]2:17   [546]2:17   [547]3:1
   [548]3:11   [549]3:18   [550]3:20   [551]4   [552]12:1   [553]19
   [554]19:12   [555]21:15   [556]21:17   [557]22:11   [558]22:11
   [559]22:12

   Tobit

   [560]5:12

   Wisdom of Solomon

   [561]4:7   [562]7:11   [563]8:1   [564]11:21   [565]14:3

   2 Maccabees

   [566]1:19

   Sirach

   [567]3:22   [568]15:11   [569]18:22   [570]24:29   [571]43:29
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Latin Words and Phrases

     * In nobis sine nobis: [572]1
     * amor,: [573]1
     * caritas.: [574]1
     * carus: [575]1
     * facti semis: [576]1
     * pietas: [577]1
     * â fortiori: [578]1
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of French Words and Phrases

     * Apres ses chevaux toute sa chevance.: [579]1
     * Instruction pastorale sur les états d'oraison.: [580]1
     * Je desire: [581]1
     * La juste reigle de le bien affectionner, c'est de ne point
       l'affecter.: [582]1
     * Levantins: [583]1
     * L'inconsideration: [584]1
     * Monseigneur: [585]1
     * Nous ne voyons pas, ains seluement nous entrevoyons.: [586]1
     * affectionner: [587]1
     * amorties: [588]1
     * attente: [589]1
     * bienseance: [590]1
     * cause: [591]1
     * charité,: [592]1
     * cher : [593]1
     * cher, cherement, encherir,: [594]1
     * contrecoeur: [595]1
     * convoitise: [596]1
     * dol: [597]1
     * esperer et aspirer: [598]1
     * force,: [599]1
     * inconsidération,: [600]1
     * je desirerois: [601]1
     * maintien: [602]1
     * mignardise: [603]1
     * mortifiées: [604]1
     * ne leve pas mais releve: [605]1
     * oraison: [606]1
     * par excellence: [607]1
     * par imagination de chose impossible.: [608]1
     * priere: [609]1
     * remise: [610]1
     * se pavonnent: [611]1
     * souhaits: [612]1
     * souspir: [613]1
     * suite: [614]1
     * tremoussements: [615]1
     * trespas: [616]1
     * triste: [617]1
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Pages of the Print Edition

   [618]i  [619]ii  [620]iii  [621]iv  [622]v  [623]vi  [624]vii
   [625]viii  [626]ix  [627]x  [628]xi  [629]xii  [630]xiii  [631]xiv
   [632]xv  [633]xvi  [634]xvii  [635]xviii  [636]xix  [637]xx  [638]xxi
   [639]xxii  [640]xxiii  [641]xxiv  [642]xxv  [643]xxvi  [644]xxvii
   [645]xxviii  [646]xxix  [647]xxx  [648]xxxi  [649]xxxii  [650]xxxiii
   [651]xxxiv  [652]xxxv  [653]xxxvi  [654]xxxvii  [655]xxxviii
   [656]xxxix  [657]xl  [658]xli  [659]xlii  [660]xliii  [661]xliv
   [662]xlv  [663]xlvi  [664]xlvii  [665]xlviii  [666]1  [667]2  [668]3
   [669]4  [670]5  [671]6  [672]7  [673]8  [674]9  [675]10  [676]11
   [677]12  [678]13  [679]14  [680]15  [681]16  [682]17  [683]18  [684]19
   [685]20  [686]21  [687]22  [688]23  [689]24  [690]25  [691]26  [692]27
   [693]28  [694]29  [695]30  [696]31  [697]32  [698]33  [699]34  [700]35
   [701]36  [702]37  [703]38  [704]39  [705]40  [706]41  [707]42  [708]43
   [709]44  [710]45  [711]46  [712]47  [713]48  [714]49  [715]50  [716]51
   [717]52  [718]53  [719]54  [720]55  [721]56  [722]57  [723]58  [724]56
   [725]60  [726]61  [727]62  [728]63  [729]64  [730]65  [731]66  [732]67
   [733]68  [734]69  [735]70  [736]71  [737]72  [738]73  [739]74  [740]75
   [741]76  [742]77  [743]78  [744]79  [745]80  [746]81  [747]82  [748]83
   [749]84  [750]85  [751]86  [752]87  [753]88  [754]89  [755]90  [756]91
   [757]92  [758]93  [759]94  [760]95  [761]96  [762]97  [763]98  [764]99
   [765]100  [766]101  [767]102  [768]103  [769]104  [770]105  [771]106
   [772]107  [773]108  [774]109  [775]110  [776]111  [777]112  [778]113
   [779]114  [780]115  [781]116  [782]117  [783]118  [784]119  [785]120
   [786]121  [787]122  [788]123  [789]124  [790]125  [791]126  [792]127
   [793]128  [794]129  [795]130  [796]131  [797]132  [798]133  [799]134
   [800]135  [801]136  [802]137  [803]138  [804]139  [805]140  [806]141
   [807]142  [808]143  [809]144  [810]145  [811]146  [812]147  [813]148
   [814]149  [815]150  [816]151  [817]152  [818]153  [819]154  [820]155
   [821]156  [822]157  [823]158  [824]159  [825]160  [826]161  [827]162
   [828]163  [829]164  [830]165  [831]166  [832]167  [833]168  [834]169
   [835]170  [836]171  [837]172  [838]173  [839]174  [840]175  [841]176
   [842]177  [843]178  [844]179  [845]180  [846]181  [847]182  [848]183
   [849]184  [850]185  [851]186  [852]187  [853]188  [854]189  [855]190
   [856]191  [857]192  [858]193  [859]194  [860]195  [861]196  [862]197
   [863]198  [864]199  [865]200  [866]201  [867]202  [868]203  [869]204
   [870]205  [871]206  [872]207  [873]208  [874]209  [875]210  [876]211
   [877]212  [878]213  [879]214  [880]215  [881]216  [882]217  [883]218
   [884]219  [885]220  [886]221  [887]222  [888]223  [889]224  [890]225
   [891]226  [892]227  [893]228  [894]229  [895]230  [896]231  [897]232
   [898]233  [899]234  [900]235  [901]236  [902]237  [903]238  [904]239
   [905]240  [906]241  [907]242  [908]243  [909]244  [910]245  [911]246
   [912]247  [913]248  [914]249  [915]250  [916]251  [917]252  [918]253
   [919]254  [920]255  [921]256  [922]257  [923]258  [924]259  [925]260
   [926]261  [927]262  [928]263  [929]264  [930]265  [931]266  [932]267
   [933]268  [934]269  [935]270  [936]271  [937]272  [938]273  [939]274
   [940]275  [941]276  [942]277  [943]278  [944]279  [945]280  [946]281
   [947]282  [948]283  [949]284  [950]285  [951]286  [952]287  [953]288
   [954]289  [955]290  [956]291  [957]292  [958]293  [959]294  [960]295
   [961]296  [962]297  [963]298  [964]299  [965]300  [966]301  [967]302
   [968]303  [969]304  [970]305  [971]306  [972]307  [973]308  [974]309
   [975]310  [976]311  [977]312  [978]313  [979]314  [980]315  [981]316
   [982]317  [983]318  [984]319  [985]320  [986]321  [987]322  [988]323
   [989]324  [990]325  [991]326  [992]327  [993]328  [994]329  [995]330
   [996]331  [997]332  [998]333  [999]334  [1000]335  [1001]336
   [1002]337  [1003]338  [1004]339  [1005]340  [1006]341  [1007]342
   [1008]343  [1009]344  [1010]345  [1011]346  [1012]347  [1013]348
   [1014]349  [1015]350  [1016]351  [1017]352  [1018]353  [1019]354
   [1020]355  [1021]356  [1022]357  [1023]358  [1024]359  [1025]360
   [1026]361  [1027]362  [1028]363  [1029]364  [1030]365  [1031]366
   [1032]367  [1033]368  [1034]369  [1035]370  [1036]371  [1037]372
   [1038]373  [1039]374  [1040]375  [1041]376  [1042]377  [1043]378
   [1044]379  [1045]380  [1046]381  [1047]382  [1048]383  [1049]384
   [1050]385  [1051]386  [1052]387  [1053]388  [1054]389  [1055]390
   [1056]391  [1057]392  [1058]393  [1059]394  [1060]395  [1061]396
   [1062]397  [1063]398  [1064]399  [1065]400  [1066]401  [1067]402
   [1068]403  [1069]404  [1070]405  [1071]406  [1072]407  [1073]408
   [1074]409  [1075]410  [1076]411  [1077]412  [1078]413  [1079]414
   [1080]415  [1081]416  [1082]417  [1083]418  [1084]419  [1085]420
   [1086]421  [1087]422  [1088]423  [1089]424  [1090]425  [1091]426
   [1092]427  [1093]428  [1094]429  [1095]430  [1096]431  [1097]432
   [1098]433  [1099]434  [1100]435  [1101]436  [1102]437  [1103]438
   [1104]439  [1105]440  [1106]441  [1107]442  [1108]443  [1109]444
   [1110]445  [1111]446  [1112]447  [1113]448  [1114]449  [1115]450
   [1116]451  [1117]452  [1118]453  [1119]454  [1120]455  [1121]456
   [1122]457  [1123]458  [1124]459  [1125]460  [1126]461  [1127]462
   [1128]463  [1129]464  [1130]465  [1131]466  [1132]467  [1133]468
   [1134]469  [1135]470  [1136]471  [1137]472  [1138]473  [1139]474
   [1140]475  [1141]476  [1142]477  [1143]478  [1144]479  [1145]480
   [1146]481  [1147]482  [1148]483  [1149]484  [1150]485  [1151]486
   [1152]487  [1153]488  [1154]489  [1155]490  [1156]491  [1157]492
   [1158]493  [1159]494  [1160]495  [1161]496  [1162]497  [1163]498
   [1164]499  [1165]500  [1166]501  [1167]502  [1168]503  [1169]504
   [1170]505  [1171]506  [1172]507  [1173]508  [1174]509  [1175]510
   [1176]511  [1177]512  [1178]513  [1179]514  [1180]515  [1181]516
   [1182]517  [1183]518  [1184]519  [1185]520  [1186]521  [1187]522
   [1188]523  [1189]524  [1190]525  [1191]526  [1192]527  [1193]528
   [1194]529  [1195]530  [1196]531  [1197]532  [1198]533  [1199]534
   [1200]535  [1201]536  [1202]537  [1203]538  [1204]539  [1205]540
   [1206]541  [1207]542  [1208]543  [1209]544  [1210]545  [1211]546
   [1212]547  [1213]548  [1214]549  [1215]550  [1216]551  [1217]552
   [1218]553  [1219]554  [1220]555  [1221]556  [1222]557  [1223]558
   [1224]559
     __________________________________________________________________

            This document is from the Christian Classics Ethereal
               Library at Calvin College, http://www.ccel.org,
                   generated on demand from ThML source.

References

   1. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=11#ix.viii-p3.2
   2. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=14#iii.ii-p7.2
   3. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=31#vii.v-p5.2
   4. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xii.ix-p6.2
   5. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=10#xii.viii-p2.2
   6. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=16#ii.iii-p2.3
   7. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=7#ii.iii-p2.5
   8. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=7#xii.xiii-p5.2
   9. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=12&scrV=1#xiii.x-p3.2
  10. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=15&scrV=6#ii.xi-p6.4
  11. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=16&scrV=6#xi.vii-p4.2
  12. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=1#iv.i-p4.8
  13. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=1#iv.iii-p6.8
  14. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=17#ii.xi-p6.2
  15. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=21&scrV=16#v.iv-p5.2
  16. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=21&scrV=16#vi.iv-p4.2
  17. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=1#xiii.x-p4.2
  18. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=24&scrV=12#ix.x-p4.2
  19. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=24&scrV=63#vii.ii-p6.6
  20. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=25&scrV=23#xii.xx-p4.2
  21. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=27&scrV=27#vi.ii-p7.2
  22. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=27&scrV=27#vi.xi-p4.2
  23. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=28&scrV=16#vii.xi-p5.2
  24. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=29&scrV=11#vii.x-p5.2
  25. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=30&scrV=0#xi.ix-p3.2
  26. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=30&scrV=1#v.ii-p5.4
  27. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=30&scrV=1#xii.v-p3.2
  28. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=32&scrV=30#iv.ix-p5.2
  29. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=37&scrV=0#iv.viii-p5.2
  30. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=37&scrV=35#vi.iv-p3.6
  31. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=39&scrV=8#xi.vii-p3.2
  32. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=41&scrV=40#ii.i-p7.2
  33. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=45&scrV=8#iii.iii-p7.2
  34. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=45&scrV=28#vi.iv-p6.2
  35. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=46&scrV=30#vi.iv-p6.4
  36. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=48&scrV=16#iv.iii-p9.2
  37. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=11#vi.ii-p5.5
  38. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=50&scrV=17#xii.xviii-p9.2
  39. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=50&scrV=20#iii.iii-p7.3
  40. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=19#vii.ii-p7.2
  41. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=34&scrV=14#xi.xiii-p2.5
  42. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=11&scrV=3#vii.ii-p6.2
  43. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=11&scrV=44#ix.viii-p2.3
  44. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=17&scrV=8#xii.vi-p2.5
  45. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=5&scrV=9#xi.xiii-p2.3
  46. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#xi.vi-p3.4
  47. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=8&scrV=6#vii.ii-p5.12
  48. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=1&scrV=8#vii.ii-p5.14
  49. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=13&scrV=18#iii.i-p3.4
  50. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=14&scrV=0#v.xi-p5.2
  51. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=14&scrV=14#xiii.xiii-p2.3
  52. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Kgdms&scrCh=2&scrV=10#xii.xviii-p2.9
  53. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Kgdms&scrCh=14&scrV=1#xii.xvii-p4.2
  54. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Kgdms&scrCh=18&scrV=1#viii.iii-p6.4
  55. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Kgdms&scrCh=1&scrV=26#ii.xiv-p2.4
  56. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Kgdms&scrCh=1&scrV=26#xii.xvi-p2.3
  57. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Kgdms&scrCh=23&scrV=0#ix.vii-p5.2
  58. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=1&scrV=15#ii.ix-p4.4
  59. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=18&scrV=1#ii.ix-p6.8
  60. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=15&scrV=0#v.iii-p5.2
  61. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=18&scrV=5#xi.iii-p7.4
  62. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=23&scrV=25#xi.iii-p7.6
  63. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=21#x.iii-p4.4
  64. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=21#x.xiv-p5.2
  65. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=21#x.xvi-p3.4
  66. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=2&scrV=10#x.ii-p7.2
  67. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=2&scrV=10#x.iii-p4.2
  68. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=14&scrV=2#iv.i-p3.4
  69. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=14&scrV=2#ix.viii-p4.2
  70. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=17&scrV=11#vii.ii-p4.2
  71. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=21&scrV=14#ix.viii-p5.2
  72. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=42&scrV=10#xii.xii-p2.8
  73. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=1&scrV=3#xii.ii-p3.4
  74. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=1&scrV=11#xii.xvii-p2.3
  75. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=10#xii.xviii-p3.4
  76. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=4&scrV=5#x.vii-p4.3
  77. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=4&scrV=6#ii.xviii-p3.4
  78. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=5&scrV=8#viii.ix-p5.5
  79. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=7&scrV=0#ii.xviii-p5.2
  80. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=9&scrV=38#ix.vii-p6.2
  81. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=9&scrV=38#xiii.ii-p3.2
  82. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=15&scrV=0#vi.i-p4.3
  83. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=15&scrV=2#vi.vi-p4.2
  84. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=15&scrV=11#iii.vi-p3.4
  85. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=17&scrV=26#xiii.v-p2.3
  86. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=6#iv.xii-p5.2
  87. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=8#xii.xvii-p6.2
  88. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=10#xii.xvii-p6.2
  89. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=15#vii.xii-p3.4
  90. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=0#iv.iii-p9.4
  91. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=24&scrV=15#x.xv-p5.2
  92. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=26&scrV=4#ix.iv-p4.2
  93. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=26&scrV=6#vi.viii-p4.2
  94. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=26&scrV=8#vii.i-p10.2
  95. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=29&scrV=6#ix.vii-p3.8
  96. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=32&scrV=6#iii.ii-p4.4
  97. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=33&scrV=1#vi.viii-p7.4
  98. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=33&scrV=4#vi.ix-p2.5
  99. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=35&scrV=10#iv.xiv-p4.2
 100. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=37&scrV=4#xii.xviii-p4.4
 101. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=38&scrV=13#vii.i-p10.6
 102. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=39&scrV=9#ix.vii-p3.16
 103. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=1#iii.xvi-p2.5
 104. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=1#iii.xvi-p3.2
 105. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=3#vii.xiii-p4.2
 106. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=3#vii.xv-p8.2
 107. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=4#iii.xvi-p4.2
 108. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=44&scrV=6#x.vi-p8.2
 109. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=44&scrV=10#iii.vi-p3.2
 110. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=44&scrV=10#iii.xxii-p4.2
 111. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=47&scrV=14#i.viii-p2.2
 112. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=50&scrV=4#xii.xii-p3.4
 113. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=50&scrV=13#v.i-p2.9
 114. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=54&scrV=7#vii.xiii-p5.2
 115. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=54&scrV=23#x.xv-p5.4
 116. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=56&scrV=8#x.ix-p3.2
 117. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=58&scrV=7#xi.i-p4.2
 118. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=61&scrV=0#ii.ix-p4.2
 119. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=62&scrV=9#viii.ii-p9.6
 120. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=64&scrV=1#vi.xii-p6.2
 121. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=70&scrV=9#iv.iv-p7.10
 122. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=0#vi.i-p4.4
 123. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=23#ix.xiii-p6.2
 124. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=24#iv.v-p3.2
 125. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=24#x.xiii-p5.2
 126. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=25#x.iv-p4.6
 127. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=25#xi.v-p4.4
 128. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=25#xiii.iv-p2.3
 129. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=25#iv.vi-p2.5
 130. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=25#viii.iii-p4.4
 131. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=73&scrV=23#iv.i-p3.2
 132. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=77&scrV=9#v.xi-p4.2
 133. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=77&scrV=39#ii.xviii-p3.2
 134. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=77&scrV=39#iii.iv-p7.2
 135. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=80&scrV=11#v.vi-p4.3
 136. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=83&scrV=1#x.iv-p4.4
 137. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=83&scrV=5#xi.ii-p3.4
 138. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=83&scrV=6#iv.i-p7.2
 139. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=91&scrV=13#xii.ii-p3.2
 140. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=99&scrV=0#vi.i-p4.2
 141. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=100&scrV=1#x.i-p4.2
 142. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=100&scrV=8#xi.xiv-p4.8
 143. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=102&scrV=1#vi.viii-p7.2
 144. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=103&scrV=15#xii.xii-p3.6
 145. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=103&scrV=24#v.viii-p2.8
 146. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=104&scrV=4#vi.iii-p9.2
 147. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=109&scrV=3#iv.xii-p4.2
 148. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=111&scrV=10#xi.i-p4.4
 149. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#ix.v-p3.1
 150. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#xi.iii-p7.2
 151. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=1#iv.i-p4.4
 152. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=4#ix.v-p2.3
 153. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=13#vii.xiv-p5.2
 154. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=20#xiii.ii-p2.4
 155. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=53#x.viii-p2.3
 156. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=54#ix.v-p6.2
 157. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=68#vii.vi-p2.2
 158. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=71#ix.iv-p8.3
 159. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=82#vii.i-p10.4
 160. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=97#vii.ii-p5.18
 161. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=97#ix.v-p3.3
 162. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=103#iv.ix-p5.4
 163. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=103#vii.vi-p2.6
 164. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=103#ix.v-p3.3
 165. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=112#iv.i-p4.2
 166. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=127#ix.v-p3.3
 167. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=137#x.i-p5.2
 168. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=137#x.vii-p3.2
 169. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=139#xi.xiv-p4.6
 170. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=163#xi.xiv-p4.2
 171. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=165#ix.vii-p2.3
 172. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=125&scrV=1#x.xii-p3.2
 173. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=132&scrV=0#i.viii-p13.1
 174. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=132&scrV=0#iv.xiii-p5.2
 175. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=132&scrV=1#xii.vi-p5.6
 176. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=136&scrV=4#xiii.iv-p7.2
 177. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=137&scrV=2#viii.ix-p5.6
 178. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=138&scrV=6#x.i-p3.2
 179. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=138&scrV=14#xii.xviii-p3.2
 180. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=138&scrV=14#x.i-p3.2
 181. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=138&scrV=21#xi.xiv-p4.4
 182. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=141&scrV=0#viii.xi-p3.1
 183. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=141&scrV=8#vi.x-p6.2
 184. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=142&scrV=10#x.xvi-p6.2
 185. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=143&scrV=0#xii.xviii-p2.7
 186. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=144&scrV=9#iii.v-p5.8
 187. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=148&scrV=5#iii.ii-p4.2
 188. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=150&scrV=6#vi.ix-p2.3
 189. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=158&scrV=8#xii.xviii-p2.5
 190. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=1&scrV=20#iii.viii-p2.7
 191. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=1&scrV=23#iii.viii-p2.7
 192. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=4&scrV=18#iv.i-p2.7
 193. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=8&scrV=22#iii.v-p3.4
 194. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=8&scrV=31#xi.xvii-p2.5
 195. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=8&scrV=35#xiii.ii-p5.2
 196. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=13&scrV=12#vii.xiii-p4.6
 197. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=15&scrV=14#vi.ii-p2.3
 198. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=27&scrV=9#ix.ix-p3.2
 199. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=31&scrV=27#xii.xvi-p4.2
 200. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=31&scrV=29#iv.viii-p2.3
 201. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=7#iv.vi-p2.3
 202. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=19&scrV=26#ii.ix-p3.2
 203. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.viii-p3.2
 204. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#ii.ix-p2.3
 205. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#ii.xv-p7.2
 206. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#iii.xvi-p2.3
 207. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#iv.vi-p5.2
 208. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#vi.ii-p5.2
 209. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#viii.i-p4.2
 210. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#vii.xii-p4.4
 211. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=2#ix.vii-p3.2
 212. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=3#iii.xiii-p6.2
 213. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vi.ii-p3.4
 214. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vi.ii-p4.2
 215. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=3#viii.ii-p3.2
 216. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=3#viii.ii-p9.10
 217. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=3#viii.iii-p2.5
 218. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=4#iii.xiv-p3.2
 219. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=6#xi.xiv-p6.2
 220. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=6#xii.xvi-p2.5
 221. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=12#vi.iv-p3.4
 222. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=12#vii.v-p4.2
 223. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=12#vii.xiv-p6.2
 224. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=12#viii.ii-p9.4
 225. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=14#iii.xv-p2.3
 226. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=0#vi.xi-p5.2
 227. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=2#vi.iii-p2.3
 228. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=2#vi.iii-p2.5
 229. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xii.xiv-p5.2
 230. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=7#iv.viii-p3.2
 231. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.viii-p5.2
 232. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=9#xiii.iii-p2.3
 233. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=12#vii.ii-p5.6
 234. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=14#vi.xi-p3.2
 235. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=14#vii.ii-p5.8
 236. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=16#iii.viii-p4.4
 237. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=16#iii.xvii-p3.2
 238. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=16#viii.ii-p9.8
 239. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=3#vi.vii-p2.3
 240. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=4#iv.vi-p3.2
 241. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=4#vii.ix-p3.2
 242. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=4#vii.vi-p3.2
 243. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=4#viii.iii-p4.2
 244. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=6#vii.i-p8.4
 245. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=0#i.viii-p1.2
 246. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=9#i.viii-p12.2
 247. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=9#iv.vi-p3.4
 248. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=9#vii.xiv-p2.3
 249. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=9#xii.v-p8.2
 250. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=9#xiii.iii-p4.2
 251. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=0#vii.v-p2.3
 252. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=1#vi.ii-p3.2
 253. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=1#vii.vi-p3.4
 254. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vi.v-p4.2
 255. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vii.i-p7.2
 256. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=3#x.xvi-p3.2
 257. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=6#vii.xii-p4.2
 258. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=6#ix.vii-p6.4
 259. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=6#ix.xii-p3.4
 260. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=8#iii.xvi-p4.4
 261. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=8#vii.xiii-p4.4
 262. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=8#vii.xiv-p2.5
 263. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=10#iii.xxii-p3.2
 264. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=10#xi.vi-p3.2
 265. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=16#vi.i-p3.2
 266. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=16#vii.vi-p2.4
 267. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=1#ix.xii-p3.6
 268. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=9#vii.ii-p6.4
 269. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=10#viii.ii-p9.2
 270. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=10#xi.v-p4.2
 271. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=11#vii.i-p8.6
 272. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=11#viii.ix-p5.2
 273. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=8&scrV=6#v.i-p3.2
 274. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=8&scrV=6#viii.ii-p10.2
 275. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=8&scrV=6#viii.ix-p2.2
 276. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=8&scrV=6#x.xvi-p7.4
 277. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=8&scrV=6#xi.xiii-p4.2
 278. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=5#x.xv-p7.2
 279. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=14&scrV=12#iii.x-p7.2
 280. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=14&scrV=13#iv.i-p4.6
 281. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=20&scrV=2#x.xvi-p7.2
 282. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=26&scrV=18#xii.xviii-p4.2
 283. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=28&scrV=19#ix.x-p3.2
 284. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=38&scrV=14#vii.ii-p5.2
 285. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=38&scrV=15#vii.ii-p5.10
 286. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=41&scrV=13#iv.iv-p2.3
 287. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=48&scrV=8#ix.vii-p3.12
 288. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=7#xi.xvii-p3.4
 289. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=11#vii.ii-p5.4
 290. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=62&scrV=14#ix.vii-p3.4
 291. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=10#iv.xi-p4.4
 292. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=2&scrV=12#v.i-p4.2
 293. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.xiii-p3.2
 294. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=2&scrV=20#ix.vii-p3.10
 295. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=9&scrV=21#xii.vii-p3.4
 296. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=3#iii.ix-p2.2
 297. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=1#v.iii-p7.2
 298. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=15#ii.xviii-p2.3
 299. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=18#vii.i-p10.8
 300. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=1&scrV=12#ix.xi-p4.2
 301. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=8&scrV=3#x.v-p5.2
 302. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=8&scrV=27#xii.xii-p2.6
 303. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=8&scrV=30#xii.xii-p2.6
 304. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=18&scrV=4#v.iv-p5.4
 305. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=18&scrV=24#xii.xi-p4.2
 306. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=18&scrV=24#xii.xii-p3.2
 307. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=18&scrV=30#iii.viii-p4.6
 308. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=28&scrV=2#ix.vii-p3.14
 309. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=29&scrV=20#xii.i-p4.2
 310. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=29&scrV=20#xii.ii-p5.4
 311. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=33&scrV=10#iii.viii-p2.9
 312. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=33&scrV=12#iii.viii-p2.9
 313. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=36&scrV=26#vii.xii-p3.2
 314. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=3&scrV=35#xi.iii-p9.2
 315. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=4&scrV=24#xii.i-p4.4
 316. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=5&scrV=6#xii.xviii-p7.4
 317. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=2&scrV=14#iv.xi-p4.2
 318. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=9&scrV=10#vi.i-p7.2
 319. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=11&scrV=4#iii.xii-p3.2
 320. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=13&scrV=9#iii.x-p8.2
 321. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=13&scrV=9#v.v-p2.3
 322. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Zeph&scrCh=1&scrV=5#viii.vii-p3.4
 323. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=2&scrV=7#ix.xiii-p5.2
 324. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=17#iii.xviii-p12.2
 325. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=3#xiii.ii-p3.4
 326. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=23#xi.viii-p4.2
 327. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=28#xiii.x-p5.2
 328. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=48#ix.viii-p2.7
 329. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=20#iv.ii-p4.4
 330. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=20#xiii.ii-p2.2
 331. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=24#xi.xiii-p2.7
 332. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=9#xi.xvi-p2.3
 333. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=17#xi.xvi-p7.4
 334. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=22#iv.iv-p3.2
 335. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=28#xii.xviii-p5.2
 336. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=28#xii.xx-p8.2
 337. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=21#iii.x-p2.2
 338. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=26#xii.xiv-p4.2
 339. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=26#xiii.ix-p9.2
 340. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=12#iv.ii-p4.2
 341. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=29#xi.xv-p3.2
 342. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=26#xii.xi-p4.6
 343. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=4#xi.v-p3.2
 344. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=11#ix.vi-p5.2
 345. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=21#ix.vi-p3.2
 346. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=3#ix.vi-p7.4
 347. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=43#x.viii-p4.4
 348. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=37#xi.xi-p2.3
 349. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=37#iii.viii-p2.5
 350. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=12#v.ii-p3.4
 351. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=30#xi.i-p4.6
 352. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=41#xii.i-p8.4
 353. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=41#xii.xii-p2.4
 354. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=23#iii.xxi-p2.3
 355. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=47#vi.vi-p5.2
 356. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=32#v.v-p2.7
 357. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=35#vi.iv-p3.2
 358. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=25#xii.xx-p8.6
 359. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=38#iv.vii-p2.3
 360. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=47#iii.xx-p3.2
 361. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=31#xiii.xiii-p3.2
 362. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=54#xi.xvi-p3.4
 363. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=60#xi.v-p2.3
 364. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=0#xii.i-p6.2
 365. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=20#xii.xx-p8.4
 366. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=41#vii.viii-p6.2
 367. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=27#x.xiv-p3.2
 368. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=49#iii.viii-p2.3
 369. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=49#v.v-p2.5
 370. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=50#xi.xvii-p2.9
 371. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=7#iii.v-p5.2
 372. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=32#xi.iv-p3.2
 373. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=5#iv.ii-p3.2
 374. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=0#vii.xi-p2.3
 375. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=32#iv.ix-p5.6
 376. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=9#v.v-p3.2
 377. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=10#iii.xii-p4.2
 378. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=13#xii.xx-p3.2
 379. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=14#xii.vi-p5.4
 380. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=15#xiii.ii-p4.2
 381. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=34#vi.ii-p2.5
 382. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=14#iv.iv-p7.2
 383. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=44#iii.ix-p3.4
 384. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=44#viii.iii-p2.3
 385. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=18#xi.xvii-p3.2
 386. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=23#xii.ix-p2.4
 387. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=23#xii.ix-p2.4
 388. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=24#xii.ix-p2.4
 389. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=5#xii.vi-p5.2
 390. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=13#xi.viii-p5.2
 391. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=4#viii.xiii-p2.3
 392. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=21#ii.ix-p6.4
 393. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=37#xi.i-p4.8
 394. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=13#iii.xx-p5.2
 395. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=13#vi.vii-p2.5
 396. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=19#vii.xiv-p2.7
 397. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=2&scrV=2#ix.xii-p3.2
 398. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=4&scrV=32#ii.ix-p6.2
 399. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=4&scrV=32#ix.vii-p3.6
 400. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=15#xii.ii-p4.2
 401. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=9&scrV=15#iii.xii-p2.3
 402. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=12&scrV=11#x.xii-p2.3
 403. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=46#v.vii-p5.2
 404. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=46#x.viii-p4.2
 405. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=20&scrV=26#x.viii-p3.2
 406. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=20&scrV=27#x.viii-p3.2
 407. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=20&scrV=31#x.viii-p3.2
 408. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=20&scrV=35#ii.xv-p5.2
 409. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=24&scrV=25#xii.xviii-p7.2
 410. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=28&scrV=4#xii.xviii-p2.3
 411. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=20#ii.xvii-p4.2
 412. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=21#v.ii-p5.2
 413. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=21#xii.x-p4.4
 414. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=22#xii.x-p4.4
 415. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=2&scrV=14#xii.i-p4.6
 416. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=5#iii.xxii-p3.4
 417. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=5#xii.xix-p2.5
 418. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=5#viii.v-p5.4
 419. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=20#iii.v-p4.2
 420. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=20#xii.xii-p4.2
 421. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=6&scrV=6#viii.vii-p4.4
 422. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=6&scrV=11#viii.vii-p6.2
 423. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=6&scrV=12#x.vii-p5.2
 424. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=15#ii.ii-p5.2
 425. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=18#ii.xvii-p6.2
 426. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=23#ii.iii-p7.2
 427. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=24#vii.xiii-p5.4
 428. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=24#vii.xv-p8.4
 429. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=17#xii.xi-p2.3
 430. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=28#xii.ii-p5.6
 431. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=38#iv.iv-p6.2
 432. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=9&scrV=2#x.viii-p2.5
 433. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=9&scrV=20#v.vii-p6.2
 434. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=11&scrV=0#v.viii-p6.2
 435. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=11&scrV=33#v.vii-p5.4
 436. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=2#ix.iv-p4.4
 437. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=12&scrV=21#iii.v-p5.4
 438. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=16&scrV=16#ii.ix-p4.6
 439. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=1&scrV=27#i.viii-p7.2
 440. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=7#v.vi-p3.2
 441. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=11#vii.xv-p3.2
 442. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=58#xii.ii-p5.2
 443. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=5#ix.vi-p4.2
 444. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=7#iii.vii-p5.2
 445. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=32#iv.viii-p2.5
 446. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=24#iv.i-p3.6
 447. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=24#iv.iv-p7.8
 448. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=24#iv.iii-p6.6
 449. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=12#v.i-p2.3
 450. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=31#xiii.viii-p2.2
 451. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=0#ix.vi-p7.2
 452. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=0#xi.xvi-p8.2
 453. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=0#xii.viii-p4.7
 454. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=2#viii.v-p5.2
 455. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=2#xii.iii-p3.3
 456. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=3#iii.xix-p5.2
 457. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=3#xii.v-p6.2
 458. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=3#xii.xiv-p4.5
 459. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=4#xii.viii-p4.2
 460. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=7#viii.xii-p2.3
 461. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=7#xii.iv-p5.2
 462. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=12#iv.xi-p3.2
 463. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=10#iv.iii-p3.4
 464. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=31#xi.xiv-p5.4
 465. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=41#iii.vii-p4.4
 466. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=45#ix.x-p2.3
 467. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=46#ii.vi-p3.2
 468. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=57#xii.i-p8.2
 469. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=58#xii.xii-p2.10
 470. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=16&scrV=13#iv.iv-p7.6
 471. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=16&scrV=20#ii.ix-p4.7
 472. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=3&scrV=5#iii.ix-p7.2
 473. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=3&scrV=5#xii.vi-p2.7
 474. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=17#xii.vi-p2.3
 475. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=14#viii.ii-p11.2
 476. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=14#viii.viii-p2.3
 477. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=14#xi.xvii-p2.3
 478. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=1#iii.xi-p3.2
 479. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=1#iv.iii-p6.2
 480. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=4#x.v-p2.3
 481. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=10#xii.xxi-p3.2
 482. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=10#xii.xxi-p8.2
 483. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=8#iv.ii-p3.4
 484. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=2#xi.xiv-p5.2
 485. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=29#xi.xiv-p5.6
 486. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=9#x.vii-p6.2
 487. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=2&scrV=19#viii.iii-p6.2
 488. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=2&scrV=20#vii.xii-p6.3
 489. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=2&scrV=20#viii.v-p4.2
 490. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=2&scrV=20#viii.vii-p4.2
 491. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=2&scrV=20#xi.xvii-p2.7
 492. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=2&scrV=20#xiii.xii-p2.5
 493. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=3&scrV=13#xi.xvi-p7.2
 494. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=4&scrV=5#v.v-p2.13
 495. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=5&scrV=22#xii.xix-p2.3
 496. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=5&scrV=24#viii.vii-p5.2
 497. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=6&scrV=10#iv.iii-p6.4
 498. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=6&scrV=14#vi.i-p7.4
 499. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=6&scrV=14#x.ii-p8.2
 500. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=3#ii.ix-p6.6
 501. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=15#iv.i-p2.9
 502. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=1&scrV=9#iv.i-p2.11
 503. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=1&scrV=23#viii.iii-p7.2
 504. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=1&scrV=23#x.iv-p4.2
 505. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=12#v.i-p2.11
 506. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=13#iv.iv-p2.5
 507. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=3&scrV=8#xi.v-p4.6
 508. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=3&scrV=18#xii.xxi-p3.4
 509. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=1&scrV=15#iii.v-p3.2
 510. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=1&scrV=16#iii.v-p3.6
 511. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=3&scrV=3#vii.xii-p6.5
 512. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=3&scrV=3#viii.vi-p6.2
 513. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=3&scrV=14#viii.iii-p9.2
 514. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=3&scrV=14#xii.ix-p2.2
 515. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=3&scrV=17#xiii.viii-p2.4
 516. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=9#ix.i-p4.2
 517. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=9#xi.ii-p2.3
 518. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=15#iii.xi-p7.2
 519. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=15#xiii.xii-p2.3
 520. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=4#iii.viii-p4.8
 521. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=4#v.v-p2.11
 522. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=3&scrV=15#i.viii-p35.2
 523. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=3&scrV=5#iii.ix-p3.2
 524. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=6&scrV=10#xii.xii-p2.12
 525. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=11&scrV=8#xiii.x-p3.4
 526. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=3#vii.ii-p5.16
 527. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=15#v.ii-p3.6
 528. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=20#xi.xvi-p4.2
 529. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=2&scrV=13#iii.v-p5.6
 530. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xii.xii-p4.3
 531. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=12#vi.iii-p5.2
 532. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=5&scrV=7#x.xiv-p4.2
 533. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=10#v.i-p2.7
 534. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=9#v.v-p2.9
 535. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=1&scrV=3#iii.ii-p4.6
 536. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=2&scrV=5#xii.ix-p2.6
 537. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=2&scrV=16#v.iii-p4.2
 538. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=3&scrV=14#iii.viii-p2.11
 539. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=3&scrV=20#iii.i-p5.4
 540. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=4&scrV=18#xii.xvi-p4.4
 541. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=5&scrV=3#xii.ix-p2.8
 542. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=4#v.ii-p3.2
 543. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=10#iv.iv-p7.4
 544. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=17#iii.vii-p4.2
 545. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=17#vii.i-p8.2
 546. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=17#xi.vi-p2.3
 547. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=3&scrV=1#xii.xi-p4.4
 548. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=3&scrV=11#v.i-p2.5
 549. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=3&scrV=18#xii.viii-p4.9
 550. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=3&scrV=20#iii.viii-p3.2
 551. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ii-p3.2
 552. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=12&scrV=1#iv.viii-p5.3
 553. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=19&scrV=0#vi.x-p3.2
 554. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=19&scrV=12#iii.i-p3.2
 555. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=21&scrV=15#xii.vi-p2.9
 556. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=21&scrV=17#xii.vi-p2.11
 557. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=22&scrV=11#iv.i-p2.3
 558. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=22&scrV=11#ix.viii-p2.5
 559. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=22&scrV=12#xii.vi-p2.13
 560. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Tob&scrCh=5&scrV=12#xii.xxi-p6.2
 561. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Wis&scrCh=4&scrV=7#viii.ix-p4.2
 562. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Wis&scrCh=7&scrV=11#iii.xxii-p5.2
 563. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Wis&scrCh=8&scrV=1#v.viii-p2.4
 564. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Wis&scrCh=11&scrV=21#v.viii-p2.6
 565. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Wis&scrCh=14&scrV=3#iii.iii-p6.2
 566. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=1&scrV=19#xii.xii-p5.2
 567. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=3&scrV=22#v.vii-p6.4
 568. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=15&scrV=11#v.v-p2.15
 569. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=18&scrV=22#iv.i-p2.5
 570. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=24&scrV=29#vii.iv-p6.2
 571. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=43&scrV=29#iii.i-p5.2
 572. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iii-p3.2
 573. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.viii-p4.5
 574. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiii-p7.6
 575. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiii-p7.5
 576. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xii-p3.3
 577. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.x-p4.2
 578. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-p26.1
 579. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.ii-p6.2
 580. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-p29.2
 581. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-p10.2
 582. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.x-p4.2
 583. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.viii-p7.1
 584. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vii-p3.2
 585. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xv-p3.3
 586. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xiv-p2.3
 587. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vi-p7.1
 588. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xii-p2.2
 589. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xv-p6.1
 590. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vi-p4.1
 591. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xi-p5.1
 592. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiii-p7.4
 593. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiii-p7.3
 594. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiii-p7.1
 595. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xi-p7.1
 596. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiii-p2.2
 597. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.ii-p2.2
 598. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xvi-p6.1
 599. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.viii-p4.4
 600. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-p37.1
 601. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-p10.3
 602. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xii-p6.1
 603. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.v-p2.4
 604. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xi-p3.1
 605. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.ii-p6.1
 606. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.i-p5.1
 607. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-p6.1
 608. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-p31.3
 609. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.i-p5.2
 610. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-p29.3
 611. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.iii-p3.1
 612. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-p10.1
 613. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xiii-p3.1
 614. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ii-p2.2
 615. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vii-p4.1
 616. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xiii-p2.2
 617. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.iii-p3.1
 618. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.i-Page_i
 619. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.ii-Page_ii
 620. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.iii-Page_iii
 621. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.iii-Page_iv
 622. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.iv-Page_v
 623. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.iv-Page_vi
 624. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_vii
 625. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_viii
 626. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_ix
 627. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_x
 628. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xi
 629. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xii
 630. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xiii
 631. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xiv
 632. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xv
 633. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xvi
 634. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xvii
 635. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xviii
 636. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xix
 637. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xx
 638. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxi
 639. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxii
 640. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxiii
 641. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxiv
 642. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxv
 643. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxvi
 644. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxvii
 645. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxviii
 646. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxix
 647. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxx
 648. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxxi
 649. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxxii
 650. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxxiii
 651. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxxiv
 652. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxxv
 653. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.v-Page_xxxvi
 654. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xxxvii
 655. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xxxviii
 656. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xxxix
 657. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xl
 658. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xli
 659. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xlii
 660. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xliii
 661. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xliv
 662. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xlv
 663. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vi-Page_xlvi
 664. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vii-Page_xlvii
 665. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vii-Page_xlviii
 666. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vii-Page_1
 667. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.vii-Page_2
 668. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_3
 669. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_4
 670. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_5
 671. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_6
 672. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_7
 673. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_8
 674. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_9
 675. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_10
 676. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_11
 677. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_12
 678. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_13
 679. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_14
 680. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_15
 681. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#i.viii-Page_16
 682. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii-Page_17
 683. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.i-Page_18
 684. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.i-Page_19
 685. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.ii-Page_20
 686. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.ii-Page_21
 687. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.iii-Page_22
 688. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.iii-Page_23
 689. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.iii-Page_24
 690. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.iv-Page_25
 691. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.iv-Page_26
 692. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.v-Page_27
 693. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.v-Page_28
 694. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vi-Page_29
 695. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vi-Page_30
 696. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-Page_31
 697. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-Page_32
 698. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-Page_33
 699. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-Page_34
 700. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.vii-Page_35
 701. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.viii-Page_36
 702. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.viii-Page_37
 703. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.ix-Page_38
 704. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.ix-Page_39
 705. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.x-Page_40
 706. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.x-Page_41
 707. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.x-Page_42
 708. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.x-Page_43
 709. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.x-Page_44
 710. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xi-Page_45
 711. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xi-Page_46
 712. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xi-Page_47
 713. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xi-Page_48
 714. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xii-Page_49
 715. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xii-Page_50
 716. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xii-Page_51
 717. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiii-Page_52
 718. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xiv-Page_53
 719. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xv-Page_54
 720. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xv-Page_55
 721. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xv-Page_56
 722. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xvi-Page_57
 723. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xvi-Page_58
 724. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xvii-Page_56
 725. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xvii-Page_60
 726. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xvii-Page_61
 727. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ii.xviii-Page_62
 728. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii-Page_63
 729. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.i-Page_64
 730. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.i-Page_65
 731. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.ii-Page_66
 732. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.ii-Page_67
 733. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.ii-Page_68
 734. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.ii-Page_69
 735. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.iii-Page_70
 736. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.iii-Page_71
 737. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.iii-Page_72
 738. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.iii-Page_73
 739. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.iv-Page_74
 740. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.iv-Page_75
 741. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.iv-Page_76
 742. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.v-Page_77
 743. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.v-Page_78
 744. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.vi-Page_79
 745. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.vi-Page_80
 746. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.vi-Page_81
 747. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.vii-Page_82
 748. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.vii-Page_83
 749. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.viii-Page_84
 750. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.viii-Page_85
 751. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.viii-Page_86
 752. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.ix-Page_87
 753. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.ix-Page_88
 754. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.ix-Page_89
 755. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.x-Page_90
 756. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.x-Page_91
 757. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xi-Page_92
 758. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xi-Page_93
 759. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xi-Page_94
 760. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xii-Page_95
 761. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xii-Page_96
 762. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xii-Page_97
 763. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xii-Page_98
 764. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xiii-Page_99
 765. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xiii-Page_100
 766. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xiii-Page_101
 767. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xiv-Page_102
 768. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xiv-Page_103
 769. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xiv-Page_104
 770. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xv-Page_105
 771. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xv-Page_106
 772. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xvi-Page_107
 773. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xvi-Page_108
 774. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xvii-Page_109
 775. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xvii-Page_110
 776. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xvii-Page_111
 777. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xviii-Page_112
 778. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xviii-Page_113
 779. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xviii-Page_114
 780. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xviii-Page_115
 781. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xix-Page_116
 782. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xx-Page_117
 783. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xx-Page_118
 784. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xx-Page_119
 785. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xx-Page_120
 786. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xx-Page_121
 787. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xxi-Page_122
 788. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xxi-Page_123
 789. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xxi-Page_124
 790. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xxii-Page_125
 791. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iii.xxii-Page_126
 792. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv-Page_127
 793. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.i-Page_128
 794. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.i-Page_129
 795. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.ii-Page_130
 796. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.ii-Page_131
 797. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.ii-Page_132
 798. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iii-Page_133
 799. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iii-Page_134
 800. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iii-Page_135
 801. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iii-Page_136
 802. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iii-Page_137
 803. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iv-Page_138
 804. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iv-Page_139
 805. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.iv-Page_140
 806. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.v-Page_141
 807. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.v-Page_142
 808. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.v-Page_143
 809. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.vi-Page_144
 810. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.vi-Page_145
 811. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.vii-Page_146
 812. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.vii-Page_147
 813. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.viii-Page_148
 814. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.viii-Page_149
 815. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.viii-Page_150
 816. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.ix-Page_151
 817. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.ix-Page_152
 818. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.ix-Page_153
 819. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.x-Page_154
 820. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xi-Page_155
 821. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xi-Page_156
 822. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xii-Page_157
 823. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xii-Page_158
 824. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xii-Page_159
 825. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xiii-Page_160
 826. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xiii-Page_161
 827. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xiv-Page_162
 828. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xv-Page_163
 829. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#iv.xv-Page_164
 830. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v-Page_165
 831. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.i-Page_166
 832. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.i-Page_167
 833. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.i-Page_168
 834. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.ii-Page_169
 835. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.ii-Page_170
 836. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.iii-Page_171
 837. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.iii-Page_172
 838. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.iii-Page_173
 839. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.iv-Page_174
 840. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.iv-Page_175
 841. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.v-Page_176
 842. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.v-Page_177
 843. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.v-Page_178
 844. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vi-Page_179
 845. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vi-Page_180
 846. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vi-Page_181
 847. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vi-Page_182
 848. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vii-Page_183
 849. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vii-Page_184
 850. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vii-Page_185
 851. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.vii-Page_186
 852. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.viii-Page_187
 853. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.viii-Page_188
 854. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.viii-Page_189
 855. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.ix-Page_190
 856. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.ix-Page_191
 857. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.ix-Page_192
 858. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.x-Page_193
 859. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.xi-Page_194
 860. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#v.xi-Page_195
 861. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi-Page_196
 862. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.i-Page_197
 863. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.i-Page_198
 864. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.i-Page_199
 865. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.ii-Page_200
 866. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.ii-Page_201
 867. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.ii-Page_202
 868. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.ii-Page_203
 869. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.iii-Page_204
 870. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.iii-Page_205
 871. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.iii-Page_206
 872. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.iv-Page_207
 873. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.iv-Page_208
 874. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.iv-Page_209
 875. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.iv-Page_210
 876. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.v-Page_211
 877. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.v-Page_212
 878. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.vi-Page_213
 879. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.vi-Page_214
 880. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.vii-Page_215
 881. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.vii-Page_216
 882. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.viii-Page_217
 883. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.viii-Page_218
 884. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.viii-Page_219
 885. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.viii-Page_220
 886. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.ix-Page_221
 887. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.ix-Page_222
 888. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.x-Page_223
 889. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.x-Page_224
 890. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.xi-Page_225
 891. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.xi-Page_226
 892. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.xi-Page_227
 893. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.xi-Page_228
 894. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.xii-Page_229
 895. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vi.xii-Page_230
 896. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii-Page_231
 897. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.i-Page_232
 898. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.i-Page_233
 899. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.i-Page_234
 900. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.i-Page_235
 901. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.ii-Page_236
 902. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.ii-Page_237
 903. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.ii-Page_238
 904. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.ii-Page_239
 905. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.iii-Page_240
 906. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.iii-Page_241
 907. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.iv-Page_242
 908. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.iv-Page_243
 909. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.iv-Page_244
 910. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.v-Page_245
 911. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.v-Page_246
 912. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.v-Page_247
 913. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.vi-Page_248
 914. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.vi-Page_249
 915. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.vi-Page_250
 916. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.vii-Page_251
 917. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.vii-Page_252
 918. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.vii-Page_253
 919. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.vii-Page_254
 920. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.viii-Page_255
 921. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.viii-Page_256
 922. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.ix-Page_257
 923. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.ix-Page_258
 924. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.x-Page_259
 925. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.x-Page_260
 926. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.x-Page_261
 927. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xi-Page_262
 928. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xi-Page_263
 929. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xi-Page_264
 930. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xii-Page_265
 931. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xii-Page_266
 932. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xii-Page_267
 933. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xii-Page_268
 934. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xiii-Page_269
 935. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xiii-Page_270
 936. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xiii-Page_271
 937. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xiv-Page_272
 938. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xiv-Page_273
 939. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xiv-Page_274
 940. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xiv-Page_275
 941. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xv-Page_276
 942. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xv-Page_277
 943. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xv-Page_278
 944. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xv-Page_279
 945. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#vii.xv-Page_280
 946. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii-Page_281
 947. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.i-Page_282
 948. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.i-Page_283
 949. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.i-Page_284
 950. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.i-Page_285
 951. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ii-Page_286
 952. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ii-Page_287
 953. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ii-Page_288
 954. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ii-Page_289
 955. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.iii-Page_290
 956. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.iii-Page_291
 957. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.iii-Page_292
 958. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.iii-Page_293
 959. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.iv-Page_294
 960. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.iv-Page_295
 961. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.v-Page_296
 962. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.v-Page_297
 963. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.v-Page_298
 964. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.vi-Page_299
 965. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.vi-Page_300
 966. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.vi-Page_301
 967. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.vii-Page_302
 968. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.vii-Page_303
 969. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.viii-Page_304
 970. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.viii-Page_305
 971. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.viii-Page_306
 972. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ix-Page_307
 973. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ix-Page_308
 974. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ix-Page_309
 975. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.ix-Page_310
 976. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.x-Page_311
 977. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xi-Page_312
 978. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xi-Page_313
 979. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xi-Page_314
 980. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xii-Page_315
 981. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xii-Page_316
 982. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xii-Page_317
 983. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xii-Page_318
 984. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xiii-Page_319
 985. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xiii-Page_320
 986. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xiii-Page_321
 987. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xiv-Page_322
 988. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xiv-Page_323
 989. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#viii.xiv-Page_324
 990. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix-Page_325
 991. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.i-Page_326
 992. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.i-Page_327
 993. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.ii-Page_328
 994. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.ii-Page_329
 995. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.iii-Page_330
 996. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.iii-Page_331
 997. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.iv-Page_332
 998. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.iv-Page_333
 999. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.iv-Page_334
1000. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.v-Page_335
1001. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.v-Page_336
1002. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.vi-Page_337
1003. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.vi-Page_338
1004. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.vi-Page_339
1005. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.vi-Page_340
1006. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.vii-Page_341
1007. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.vii-Page_342
1008. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.vii-Page_343
1009. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.viii-Page_344
1010. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.viii-Page_345
1011. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.ix-Page_346
1012. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.ix-Page_347
1013. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.ix-Page_348
1014. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.ix-Page_349
1015. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.x-Page_350
1016. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.x-Page_351
1017. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.x-Page_352
1018. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xi-Page_353
1019. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xi-Page_354
1020. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xi-Page_355
1021. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xi-Page_356
1022. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xii-Page_357
1023. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xii-Page_358
1024. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xiii-Page_359
1025. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xiii-Page_360
1026. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xiii-Page_361
1027. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xiv-Page_362
1028. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xiv-Page_363
1029. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#ix.xiv-Page_364
1030. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x-Page_365
1031. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.i-Page_366
1032. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.i-Page_367
1033. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.ii-Page_368
1034. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.ii-Page_369
1035. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.ii-Page_370
1036. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.iii-Page_371
1037. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.iii-Page_372
1038. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.iv-Page_373
1039. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.iv-Page_374
1040. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.iv-Page_375
1041. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.v-Page_376
1042. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.v-Page_377
1043. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vi-Page_378
1044. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vi-Page_379
1045. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vi-Page_380
1046. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vi-Page_381
1047. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vii-Page_382
1048. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vii-Page_383
1049. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vii-Page_384
1050. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.vii-Page_385
1051. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.viii-Page_386
1052. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.viii-Page_387
1053. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.ix-Page_388
1054. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.ix-Page_389
1055. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.x-Page_390
1056. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.x-Page_391
1057. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.x-Page_392
1058. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xi-Page_393
1059. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xi-Page_394
1060. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xii-Page_395
1061. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xii-Page_396
1062. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xii-Page_397
1063. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xiii-Page_398
1064. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xiii-Page_399
1065. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xiii-Page_400
1066. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xiv-Page_401
1067. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xiv-Page_402
1068. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xiv-Page_403
1069. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xv-Page_404
1070. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xv-Page_405
1071. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xv-Page_406
1072. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xvi-Page_407
1073. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xvi-Page_408
1074. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#x.xvi-Page_409
1075. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi-Page_410
1076. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.i-Page_411
1077. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.i-Page_412
1078. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.i-Page_413
1079. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.ii-Page_414
1080. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.iii-Page_415
1081. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.iii-Page_416
1082. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.iii-Page_417
1083. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.iii-Page_418
1084. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.iv-Page_419
1085. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.iv-Page_420
1086. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.iv-Page_421
1087. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.v-Page_422
1088. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.v-Page_423
1089. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.v-Page_424
1090. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.v-Page_425
1091. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.vi-Page_426
1092. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.vi-Page_427
1093. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.vii-Page_428
1094. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.vii-Page_429
1095. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.viii-Page_430
1096. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.viii-Page_431
1097. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.viii-Page_432
1098. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.viii-Page_433
1099. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.viii-Page_434
1100. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.ix-Page_435
1101. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.ix-Page_436
1102. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.ix-Page_437
1103. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.x-Page_438
1104. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.x-Page_439
1105. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xi-Page_440
1106. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xi-Page_441
1107. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xi-Page_442
1108. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xii-Page_443
1109. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xii-Page_444
1110. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xiii-Page_445
1111. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xiii-Page_446
1112. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xiii-Page_447
1113. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xiv-Page_448
1114. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xiv-Page_449
1115. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xiv-Page_450
1116. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xiv-Page_451
1117. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xv-Page_452
1118. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xv-Page_453
1119. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xv-Page_454
1120. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xv-Page_455
1121. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvi-Page_456
1122. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvi-Page_457
1123. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvi-Page_458
1124. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvi-Page_459
1125. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvi-Page_460
1126. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvii-Page_461
1127. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvii-Page_462
1128. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xi.xvii-Page_463
1129. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii-Page_464
1130. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.i-Page_465
1131. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.i-Page_466
1132. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.i-Page_467
1133. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.ii-Page_468
1134. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.ii-Page_469
1135. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.ii-Page_470
1136. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.iii-Page_471
1137. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.iii-Page_472
1138. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.iv-Page_473
1139. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.iv-Page_474
1140. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.v-Page_475
1141. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.v-Page_476
1142. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.v-Page_477
1143. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vi-Page_478
1144. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vi-Page_479
1145. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vi-Page_480
1146. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vi-Page_481
1147. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vii-Page_482
1148. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vii-Page_483
1149. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vii-Page_484
1150. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.vii-Page_485
1151. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.viii-Page_486
1152. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.viii-Page_487
1153. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.viii-Page_488
1154. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.ix-Page_489
1155. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.ix-Page_490
1156. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.ix-Page_491
1157. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.x-Page_492
1158. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.x-Page_493
1159. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.x-Page_494
1160. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.x-Page_495
1161. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.x-Page_496
1162. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xi-Page_497
1163. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xi-Page_498
1164. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xi-Page_499
1165. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xii-Page_500
1166. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xii-Page_501
1167. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xii-Page_502
1168. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xii-Page_503
1169. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xiii-Page_504
1170. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xiii-Page_505
1171. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xiii-Page_506
1172. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xiv-Page_507
1173. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xiv-Page_508
1174. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xv-Page_509
1175. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xv-Page_510
1176. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xv-Page_511
1177. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xvi-Page_512
1178. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xvi-Page_513
1179. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xvii-Page_514
1180. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xvii-Page_515
1181. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xvii-Page_516
1182. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xviii-Page_517
1183. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xviii-Page_518
1184. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xviii-Page_519
1185. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xviii-Page_520
1186. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xviii-Page_521
1187. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xix-Page_522
1188. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xix-Page_523
1189. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xix-Page_524
1190. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xx-Page_525
1191. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xx-Page_526
1192. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xx-Page_527
1193. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xx-Page_528
1194. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xxi-Page_529
1195. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xxi-Page_530
1196. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xxi-Page_531
1197. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xii.xxi-Page_532
1198. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii-Page_533
1199. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.i-Page_534
1200. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.ii-Page_535
1201. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.ii-Page_536
1202. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.iii-Page_537
1203. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.iv-Page_538
1204. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.iv-Page_539
1205. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.v-Page_540
1206. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.vi-Page_541
1207. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.vii-Page_542
1208. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.viii-Page_543
1209. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.viii-Page_544
1210. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.viii-Page_545
1211. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.ix-Page_546
1212. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.ix-Page_547
1213. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.ix-Page_548
1214. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.x-Page_549
1215. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.x-Page_550
1216. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.x-Page_551
1217. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xi-Page_552
1218. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xii-Page_553
1219. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xiii-Page_554
1220. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xiii-Page_555
1221. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xiii-Page_556
1222. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xiv-Page_557
1223. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xiv-Page_558
1224. file:///ccel/d/desales/love/cache/love.html3#xiii.xiv-Page_559
