c0

c9

THE COMPLETE EQUIPMENT-

LEASING HANDBOOK

A DEAL MAKER’S GUIDE WITH FORMS, CHECKLISTS AND WORKSHEETS, SECOND EDITION

VOLUME I

Richard M. Contino, Esq.

YORK HOUSE PRESS

c12

This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering legal, accounting, or other professional service. If legal advice or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Contino, Richard M.,

The Complete Equipment Leasing Handbook : A Deal Maker’s Guide with Forms, Checklists, and Worksheets, Second Edition / Richard M. Contino.

Includes index.

ISBN: 151220935X

ISBN 13: 9781512209358

© 2015 Richard M. Contino, Esq.

All rights reserved.

Although this publication is subject to copyright, permission is granted free of charge to reproduce the forms required by each user.

c1R

Dedication
To
Penelope,
May-Lynne,
and
Matthew

c1Y

Acknowledgments

My very special thanks to my dear wife, Penelope, my wonderful daughter, May-Lynne, and my terrific son, Matthew, all of whose presence in my life make all my writing efforts worthwhile.

c29

Contents

Preface

About the Author

Chapter 1:    The Fundamentals of Equipment Leasing

A       Overview

B       Leasing’s Tax Motivations

C       Who Are the Prospective Lessees?

D       Who Are the Potential Lessors?

E       Types of Leases

F       The Pros and Cons of Leasing

G       When-to-Lease Checklist

H       Checklist for Prospective Lessees Approaching Potential Lessors

I        Summary

Chapter 2:    The Proposal Stage- Where the Leasing Deal Is made

A       Overview

B       Obtaining Bids - The Request-For-Bids Letter

C       What Is the Proposal Letter?

D       What Issues Should The Proposal Letter Address?

E       Agreement to the Proposal Letter

F       The Prospective Lessee’s Obligations After a Proposal Is Accepted

G       The Prospective Lessor’s Obligations After a Proposal Is Accepted

H       A Proposal Stage Checklist for the Lessee

I        A Proposal Stage Checklist for the Lessor

J       Summary

Chapter 3:    Negotiating the Lease Document

A       What Is the Lease’s Central Purpose?

B       The Common Lease Forms

C       Subjects to Address in Negotiating the Lease

D       A Checklist for Drafting and Negotiating a Lease Agreement

E       Summary

Chapter 4:    Closing The Lease Financing

A       Overview

B       Legal Opinions

C       Financial Reports

D       Corporate Authorization Documents

E       Guarantees

F       Proof of Insurance Documents

G       Equipment Purchase Agreements

H       An Equipment Bill of Sale

I        Waivers From Land Owners or Mortgagees

J       Security Interest Filings

K       Participation Agreements

L       The Owner’s Trust Agreement

M       A Lender’s Trust Agreement

N       Using a Partnership Instead of a Trust Arrangement

O       The Underwriter’s Fee Agreement

P       A Supplemental Lease Document Closing Checklist

Q       Summary

Chapter 5:    Tax Advantages in Lease Transactions

A.       Introduction

B.       Investment Tax Credit-An Overview

C.       Equipment Depreciation – An Overview

D.       Property Eligible for MACRS

E.       MACRS Deduction Computations

F.       The Alternative MACRS Depreciation Approach

G.       Antiabuse Rules Under MACRS

H.       Recapture

I.        Expensing

J.       MACRS Effective Dates

K.       Summary

Chapter 6:    How to Cope Successfully With The Tax Lease Rules

A       The True Lease

B       Procedural Alternatives

C       The Guidelines

D       Ruling Request Submission Requirements

E       The Foundation Tax Rules

F       A Quick ‘True’ Lease Checklist

H       Summary

Chapter 7:    Advantages and Risks of Leveraged Leasing Decisions

A       What Is the Concept of Leveraged Leasing?

B       Leveraged Lease Participants Have Unique Characteristics

C       How Different Is the Leveraged Lease Document?

D       Three Advantages to the Lessee in a Leveraged Lease

E       Investment Pitfalls and Recommendations for Prospective Lessors

F        A Checklist for the Leveraged Lease Investor

G       Summary

Chapter 8:    Financial Analysis of Leases

A       Overview

B       The Importance of Cash Flow and Timing for a Lessee

C       The Prospective Lessee’s Analysis

D       The Lessor’s Lease Investment Analysis

E       Summary

Chapter 9:    Understanding the Lease Accounting Rules

A       Background

B       Lease Classifications for a Lessee Vary Significantly-A Careful Analysis Is Essential

C       The Accounting Requirements Have an Impact on a Lessee

D       The Lease Classification Categories for a Lessor Are Extensive

E       The Lessor’s Accounting Requirements Are Complex

F       Accounting Rules Governing Sale-Leaseback Situations

G       A Lease Classification Checklist for Lessees

H       A Lease Classification Checklist for Lessors

I        Summary of Accounting Lease Classifications

I        Summary

Chapter 10:  The Business of Leasing Equipment

A       Overview

B       Key Profit Strategies

C       Making Money in the Leasing Business

D       Considerations for Setting Up a Leasing Operation

E       Leasing Offers Equipment Vendors a Marketing Edge

F       Summary

Chapter 11:  Equipment Leasing In International Markets

A       Overview

B       A Complex Market of Growth

C       The Foreign Lessee Demand

D       Advantages for Lessors Leasing Internationally

E       Risks Of Operating In Foreign Markets

F       Local Law Considerations

G       The International Lease Documents

H       The Uniform International Lease Rules

I         Summary

Chapter 12:  The Equipment Leasing Laws Under the Uniform Commercial Code

A       Introduction

B       UCC Article 2, Sales-An Overview

C       Equipment Leasing Under UCC Article 2A

D       A Key Lease Concept Under Article 2A—The Finance Lease

E       Avoiding Legally Implied Equipment Warranties

F       Lessor Lease Remedies Under Article 2A

G       Lessee Lease Remedies Under Article 2A

H       A Consumer Lease Under Article 2A

I        Summary

Chapter 13:  Equipment Financing Trends--Managed Services and Per Use Agreements

A       Managed Service and Fee Per Use Agreements—New Equipment Financing Product Trends

B       How are the Managed Services Agreement and Fee Per Use Agreement Payments Priced?

C       What is a Typical MAS Structure?

D       What is the Typical Fee Per Use Provision?

E       What are the Financing Challenges for the Equipment Financing Company?

F       Summary

Chapter 14:  The Bankruptcy Rules for Leasing

A       Introduction

B       Bankruptcy Liquidation and Reorganization

C       Chapter 7-Liquidation, An Overview

D       Chapter 11-Reorganization, An Overview

E       Automatic Stay

F       Equipment Lease Treatment in Bankruptcy

G       Assumption or Rejection

H       The Assumption or Rejection Time Periods

I        Special Treatment for Aircraft, Railroad Rolling Stock and Vessels

J       What Happens If The Lease Is Not A True Lease?

K       Summary

Chapter 15:  Equipment Lease Terminology - The Definitions -

c6Z

Preface

Equipment leasing is one of the most complex forms of financing in existence today, involving sophisticated concepts often understood only by experts. Many equipment users fail to consider this important alternative when they need equipment because of their lack of understanding of the advantages. Even those who do consider it frequently do not know how to maximize their position. On the other hand, many lessors and lenders overlook obvious opportunities for profit because of a limited view of equipment financing. And that’s why this book was written.

The Complete Handbook of Equipment Leasing--A Deal Maker’s Guide, with Equipment Leasing Agreements, Forms, Worksheets & Checklists, Second Edition, is a comprehensive book for lessees and lessors, updated as of 2015. Its purpose is to provide current legal, financial, tax, accounting, and business background and tools essential to evaluate, negotiate, advise on and document successful equipment lease transactions. Not only does it contain transaction critical information, but it includes a comprehensive array of over 100 equipment lease and loan business and legal forms, for ready reference and drafting guidance. It will assist both leasing novices and those with more experience. The equipment lease transaction is analyzed from start to finish, taking the reader step-by-step through the ten most important aspects of leasing--the general marketplace, the preliminary evaluation stage, the proposal, the documents, the tax issues, the business aspects, the bankruptcy issues, the security interest issues, the accounting treatment, and the economics. Many prospective lessees, for example, do not know that they can dramatically increase their chances of getting the most favorable available deals by simply eliminating certain type of lessors, those less suited for their particular transactions. The characteristics of the various lessors are explained, as well as the pros and cons of dealing with each. Some prospective lessors, on the other hand, leave themselves needlessly exposed to financial, business, and tax risks.

So, if you’re a prospective or existing lessor, lessee, or equipment lender, or a lease advisor, and you want to have the best available leasing information or documentation, this book is for you. It will, for example, address issues such as:

•​How does the leasing marketplace really work?

•​What are the leasing profit areas?

•​How does a leasing company run?

•​Do bank leasing companies give the most aggressive rates?

•​When is leasing a poor choice?

•​What is the best way for a company to solicit lease bids?

•​Does a proposal letter really commit a lessor?

•​What should a properly written lease cover?

•​How can an underwriter protect its fee?

•​How good is a legal opinion on questionable issues?

•​When should a leveraged lease be used?

•​When will a lease meet the IRS requirements?

•​How does the alternative minimum tax affect leasing?

•​Can a fixed price purchase option be used?

•​What advantageous depreciation methods are now available?

•​Is the investment tax credit completely gone?

•​What tax and economic risks does a lessor have?

•​What special risks must a leveraged lease investor consider?

•​How should a lease be analyzed financially?

•​What impact do the lease accounting rules have?

•​What are the bankruptcy issues and concerns?

•​What common lease provisions are voided by the bankruptcy rules?

•​What are Uniform Commercial Code rules for leasing and secured lending?

•​How does UCC Article 2 A help both lessors and lessees?

•​Can lessors prevent lessees’ creditors from getting their leased equipment?

•​What is the best document for a particular situation?

•​What are the new product financing tends in the leasing industry?

In addition, in this Second Edition, the business of leasing is explained, both domestically and internationally, to provide you, whether you’re on the lessor’s or lessee’s side, with key information on issues such as lessor profit strategies, the establishment and operation of a leasing company, and the leasing of equipment in the robust international market. All with a view to maximizing leasing opportunities and minimizing leasing risks. The equipment leasing rules established under the Uniform Commercial Code, Article 2A, and the secured lending rules under Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code, as they affect or impact equipment lending transitions, are handily explained. Finally, the bankruptcy rules, a critical consideration in approaching, and managing defaulted, equipment lease or secured loan transactions are simply explained for the business person.

Throughout the book the latest and best techniques for dealing with the technical and business issues are explained. Practical suggestions and insights are offered to enable you to gain every advantage and avoid the many legal and financial pitfalls. Here’s some of what you’ll find in the leasing reference section:

Proposal stage. In any lease financing arrangement, the proposal stage is the critical point when the parties establish the transaction’s business parameters, At this stage, the prospective lessee will be in its strongest negotiating position. By taking advantage of some simple techniques recommended by the author, it can, for example, get a “below market” lease rent. A prospective lessor can, on the other hand, gain some valuable advantages at this time by properly structuring its offer.

Documentation. The documentation stage--where the participant’s rights and obligations are defined--is another crucial step in the transaction. To be fully aware of what their risks and obligations will be, all participants must understand the transaction’s basic concepts. For example, a lessor may inadvertently assume certain state tax payment obligations that can drastically reduce its profits. A lessee may also unknowingly assume burdensome obligations. This book comprehensively examines the documents to give anyone responsible for negotiating an equipment lease the essentials necessary to avoid the many traps.

Tax issues. Problems often arise because of lack of understanding of the complex tax issues. Parties spend time and money on transactions that will not be approved by the IRS. The original tax guidelines promulgated in 1975 have been restated in two more recent Revenue Procedures, discussed and explained.

Accounting issues. How a lease must be accounted for should always be a foremost consideration. Improper structuring can cause undesirable accounting treatment. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has promulgated an extensive and complicated set of rules on accounting for leases. The accounting rules are in transitions for 2015, and the transition is explained. A chapter summarizes the existing rules and puts them into a more meaningful and current context.

Financial issues. Another key consideration is the financial side of a lease decision. There are many apparent--and some not so apparent--economic advantages and disadvantages to leasing. Lease investors, for example, should be aware that incorrect equipment residual assumptions can wipe out profits. A prospective lessee can end up making the wrong financing decision by using an incorrect method of analysis. The economic advantages and disadvantages, as well as the methods of financial analysis, are explained so that a prospective lessor, lessee, lender, or investor can determine what his position is or should be.

Leveraged leasing. An entire chapter explains the specialized field of leveraged leasing--where the lease transaction is financed largely with nonrecourse debt. One of the most sophisticated and competitive forms of leasing, leveraged leasing can produce many unique benefits. There are, however, many dangers. Some lease underwriters, for example, “low ball” rent quotations to eliminate the competition and then later raise the rates. A prospective lease investor can end up making a poor investment by relying on an unrealistic investment analysis.

The Business of Leasing Equipment. How does a lessor reduce its risks and make money in the leasing business? Surprisingly, it is often in ways that are not readily apparent. A successful profit strategy used by some lessors in highly competitive market areas, for example, is to target equipment that historically maintains excellent re-sale value and aggressively go after lease deals by offering very low rents. Although these low rents often do little more than the lessor’s operational overhead, the profit picture brightens when the equipment comes off lease and is sold or re-leased by the lessor. There is a risk for these lessors--technical obsolescence or reduced buyer demand. Properly approached, however, these risks can be successfully managed.

International Leasing. The business of leasing of equipment in the United State is mature, and, accordingly, is highly competitive. Many lessors with the ability to finance equipment for overseas users are finding a market gold mine. But, to be successful in the international market, different skills are required than those for leasing in the US market. Accordingly, some lessors should avoid this market. For those lessors with the right resources, however, providing they do their homework, the international leasing market may yield attractive new opportunities.

The Leasing Laws Under the Uniform Commercial Code. As a lessor, you cannot protect your equipment under lease from claims of outside lessee creditors unless you have a working knowledge of the technical requirements of the leasing laws adopted by the various states in which your equipment is located, including the secured lending laws. One mistake can eliminate your rights to reclaim your equipment. Although the leasing laws, as embodied in legislation referred to as the Uniform Commercial Code, can vary somewhat from state to state, the issues that need to be addressed are the same: How do these laws work; do you need to make a state or local filing to protect your equipment against third-party claims; how do you make any necessary filings; when must any required filings be made; and what happens if you don’t make a critical filing? Lessees, on the other hand, must know the impact of these leasing laws, in order to properly assess whether they have unnecessarily committed to a lessor leasing law request that will create problems in the future.

New Product Financing Trends. The anticipated changes in the in the accounting rules has forced lessors, including equipment vendor financing companies and sellers of equipment, to develop new packaged offerings that address the concerns and needs of equipment users. In particular, managed services agreements and other forms of leasing arrangements have surfaced such as fee per use agreements. This trend is explored, issues identified the and suggestions provided.

Bankruptcy. One of the most complex laws affecting equipment leasing and secured lending transactions are the bankruptcy laws, in particular the Federal bankruptcy laws. The bankruptcy laws can severely impact an equipment lease or loan transaction. If you’re a lessor, you will at some point encounter a situation where your rights are controlled by the bankruptcy rules. If you do not anticipate how these rules can affect your lease, your losses can be far greater that necessary. As a lessee, you must also understand these laws. In particular, you must know your bankruptcy rights in the event if because necessary to file for protection under the bankruptcy laws so your chances of surviving increase.

Finally, many chapters include time-saving checklists covering the critical stages and aspects of an equipment lease financing. Examples have been incorporated to illustrate many of the financial points discussed. In one chapter, all of the leasing industry’s important terms and “buzz” words have been compiled and simply defined for ready access.

In summary, the reference text portion of this book gives the reader a complete grasp of the legal, financial, tax, accounting, and business considerations for leasing, including those that are necessary to originate, evaluate, and negotiate the most favorably structured equipment leasing transaction.

In the Forms Section of the Complete Handbook of Equipment Leasing--A Deal Maker’s Guide, with Equipment Leasing Agreements, Forms, Worksheets & Checklists, Second Edition] you will find examples of virtually every type of document, worksheet, checklist, notification and letter to assist anyone involved, or intending to become involved, in equipment leasing or lending. In total, there are over 100 documents. So, if you’re a prospective or existing lessor, lessee, or equipment lender, or a lease or loan advisor, this book will provide a handy and invaluable state-of-the art document reference for small to multi-million dollar equipment financing, and equipment-financing related, transactions. For example, there are forms for:

•​Preparing lessor lease proposals and lessee requests for lease proposals, such as lessor lease proposals and lessee RFQs,

•​Evaluating lessor proposals or prospective lessee deals, such as transactions summaries,

•​Documenting equipment lease or loan transactions, such as single deal or master lease and loan agreements,

•​Starting and operating a leasing business, such as lessee marketing materials, internal deal and operations worksheets, and collection notices, and

•​Setting up equipment vendor financing arrangements, such as vendor program and remarketing agreements.

All documents, where relevant, are fully integrated with cross references to other documents necessary which may be integral with the document being used, thereby enabling you to quickly access these collateral forms. For example, lease agreements are integrated with opinions of counsel, guaranties, corporate resolutions, and various lessee and lessor lease options so you have a complete package. In addition, you can obtain a free Word version of the agreements, forms, worksheets, checklists, notifications and letters by sending a request email to rcontino@continopartners.com.

Each form is preceded by a page that states the respective form number, summary of the form’s purpose, an identification of who the executing parties are, and cross references to other pertinent forms.

Specific Tips on Using Your Form Book

Provided below are some tips on getting the most out of Volume II of this book.

Do You Need a Particular Lease or Loan Provision?

The 115 agreements, forms, worksheets and checklists available to you in this book are based upon, and have been honed through, the author’s equipment financing experience with hundreds of transactions and situations, both as a legal and business advisor and as a business principal, during his twenty year involvement with the business of equipment leasing and lending. With these documents at your fingertips, you have immediate access to a unique wealth of equipment lease and loan provisions to help you gain every advantage, avoid the many pitfalls, and assist you in developing negotiating compromises, when necessary. Many form categories provide you with drafting approach choices to enable you to select the most appropriate provision style for your particular situation. For example, in looking for a small ticket financing, a less detail specific approach may be the most appropriate. Also, some provisions reflect the give-and-take of actual deal negotiations. These provisions will provide you with winning insights, ones, for example, that can increase your bargaining power, help you win profitable business deals or obtain cost-effective equipment financing, enhance your ability to effectively make reasonable negotiating compromises, and assist you in closing beneficial equipment financing deals.

Do You Need a Particular Form?

When you need a particular form, simply check the Table of Contents for what you want. Where relevant, the author has provided a selection of forms within a particular category. For example, if you are looking for an equipment lease agreement, you will find that there are two lease agreements to choose from--a long-form master lease agreement, and a short-form lease agreement. If you are involved with a small ticket, non-tax sensitive lease transaction, you will not need, or want, a 50 page document, so the short-form lease agreement is the place to start. If, on the other hand, you are involved with a multi-million dollar lease transaction, you should refer to the more comprehensive lease agreement which will contain provisions that address the needs found in major equipment financings. If there are specific lease agreement provisions you need assistance on, refer to all the lease agreements for guidance--each document contains valuable deal nuances. In using all these documents, keep in mind that no matter what type of equipment that you are involved with, the basic forms can be easily adapted by making the appropriate equipment type changes.

Are You Putting Together An Entire Transaction?

Equipment lease and loan transactions involve multiple documents which, in many cases, must interrelate. For example, if you are involved with an equipment lending transaction, you will not only need the loan and security agreement, but you will also need all the collateral forms typically used in a loan transaction, such as a form legal opinion. By referencing the Loan Document Section of the Table of Contents, you can identify which loan and security agreement forms are packaged specifically to provide you with fully integrated collateral documents, so important and critical deal aspects and collateral documents are not inadvertently overlooked. Using these fully integrated forms will save you drafting time. Additionally, the page preceding each form has cross references, where relevant, to other documents that you might want, or need, to consider.

Are You Proposing A Deal?

If you are an equipment lessor or lease underwriter, this book can save you time in putting together the best possible proposal for you and your prospective lessee. The relevant checklists, worksheets, and letters will get you off on the right track-quickly. For example, the book contains form single investor and multiple investor proposal formats. Additionally, if you are proposing on an equipment loan, these forms can be readily adapted to loan proposals.

Are You looking for Equipment Financing Offers?

If you’re a prospective equipment user and want financing bids on equipment you need, the documents available will ensure that you don’t miss out on the many possible benefits and that you put together a professional looking request for bids, allowing you to quickly analyze financing offers when they come in. For example, there is a time-saving request for lease proposals (RFQ-Deal Sheet Format, Form r-01) developed by the author that sets up the bidding parameters so offer comparisons can be done simply and meaningfully.

Are You Concerned About Missing An Important Deal Point?

Unless you are thoroughly experienced in equipment leasing or lending, it’s often difficult, and sometimes impossible, to know what you should ask for and what may be available. Even when you do know, in the rush of a deal it’s easy to inadvertently miss an important point. The worksheets and checklists available will ensure that you’re never in that situation--whether you on the lessor’s or lessee’s side. For example, a handy lease proposal evaluation worksheet, and an invaluable lease negotiation and drafting checklist, gives you expert guidance.

Are You Negotiating a Deal?

In negotiating any equipment lease or loan financing, a ready reference to comprehensive provisions and forms can assist you in documenting or negotiating difficult points--and in formulating possible solutions when transaction impasses occur. And they will. The documents provided in this book come from the negotiating trenches. If you need assistance, they will help you solve difficult problems, and gain protection.

Are You Starting or Running a Leasing or Lending Business.

Not only does this book contain all the basic agreements that you need to document an equipment lease or loan transaction, but it contains worksheets, checklists and time-saving form letters that you can use in the day-to-day running of a leasing business. For example, there are lessee marketing materials, such as a form rate sheet and a form proposal letter, transaction audit worksheets, and collection letters. All are based upon documents in actual use by equipment lessors and lenders.

In summary, whatever your equipment financing needs, the Forms section of this book offers you a unique and ready source for invaluable state-of-the-art agreements, forms, worksheets, and checklists that are not available in any other publication.

Richard M. Contino, Esq.

c9S

About the Author

Richard M. Contino is an internationally-known equipment financing expert, as well as a practicing attorney, business consultant, and businessman. He is the Managing Partner of Contino + Partners, an equipment lease and business law firm located in Rye Brook, New York (http://continopartners.com). Prior to entering private practice, Mr. Contino held the positions, over a five-year period, of Marketing Vice President and Eastern Regional Counsel for GATX Leasing Corporation, a major independent equipment lessor and lease underwriter. Mr. Contino is also the President of First Lease Advisors, a lease consulting firm located in Stamford, Connecticut (http://firstleaseadvisors.com).

Mr. Contino is the author of five equipment lease financing books, three human potential development books, and the finance author of a business handbook. In addition to his books, he has written numerous articles and conducted seminars throughout the United States for many private corporations, business groups, law associations, and other professional organizations on the legal, financial, business, and marketing aspects of equipment leasing.

Mr. Contino received an LL.M. in corporate law from the New York University Graduate School of Law, a Juris Doctor from the University of Maryland School of Law and a Bachelor of Aeronautical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He is a member of the bar of the State of New York and has been admitted to the bars of Maryland, as well as the District of Columbia. Mr. Contino is also a member of the American Bar Association and the New York State Bar Association; and is listed in Who’s Who of American Law, Who’s Who of Emerging Leaders, Who’s Who in the World, and The International Who’s Who of Contemporary Achievement.

cA2

CHAPTER 1

The Fundamentals of Equipment Leasing

A.​Overview

The concept of the lease as a property right, and the rights and duties of lessors and lessees, has been part of our legal tradition for centuries, particularly with respect to real estate. During the 1950s, leasing began to emerge as a viable alternative for acquiring equipment. Today, the equipment leasing industry plays a major role in the financial community: A user can lease virtually any type of equipment on a variety of terms. There is, however, a drawback--the legal requirements and financial considerations are, at times, extremely complex. In fact, many transactions involve concepts so sophisticated that even the most experienced people sometimes make mistakes that could cost them or their customers thousands of dollars.

The interest in leasing as an alternative means of acquiring equipment continues to prompt a deluge of questions not only from equipment users, but also from the legal and financial community. For example:

•​What are the tax advantages and disadvantages to the lessee?

•​What are the tax benefits available to the lessor?

•​What is the best business structure for a lease?

•​How should a lease transactions be analyzed from a financial viewpoint?

•​How are leases treated for accounting purposes?

•​What are the leasing risks and what are the benefits?

For these, and many other questions, there are no easy answers.

The 1986 Tax Reform Act (1986 TRA) took away the investment tax credit (ITC), and expanded the alternative minimum tax (AMT). Safe harbor leases have come and gone. The economic downturn of the late 1980s and early 1990s sparked suggestions of new tax law changes to stimulate business. The economy recovered and these changes never occurred. In the beginning of the new Millennium, the economy again dipped, giving rise, again, to the possibility of tax law changes that could have a significant positive or negative impact on leasing, and which could create new questions, issues, and business challenges. This on-going tax law roller coaster, often motivated by political needs and special interests, creates a difficult and uncertain leasing business environment for all parties involved.

Unfortunately, because of the many variables that can be involved in a lease decision, no book could presume to answer all the questions concerning the criteria for, and desirability of, entering into every conceivable transaction. In addition, the desirability of leasing for, and the lease evaluation criteria used by, one company may be totally inappropriate for another company. This book will, however, provide the reader with a comprehensive working knowledge of the fundamental tools necessary to handle competently any lease situation from start to finish. The relevant issues which must be taken into account in developing a solid financing approach will be identified, described, and explained.

This chapter sets the stage for the following chapters. After briefly reviewing the tax motivations behind leasing transactions, it describes the major players (the typical lessees and lessors), explains the types of leases commonly offered, and then sets out what equipment users should consider when deciding to enter the leasing arena.

B.​Leasing’s Tax Motivations

1.​The General Tax Picture

Although any type of equipment can be leased, the critical question to the prospective lessee is--at what cost? While the answer is complex, as a threshold matter leasing often is not the lowest cost way for a company to acquire equipment unless the lessor can take advantage of certain tax benefits and indirectly pass them on, at least in part, in the form of relatively lower lease rents. Consider the following hypothetical example.

Illustrative Example--The Tax Advantage: Company Able wants to acquire the use of a $20,000 truck. It can borrow funds from its bank for five years at the prime rate, assumed for this example to be 10% a year. If Company Able were able to borrow 100% of the funds required, its cost to finance the truck would be the cost of the $20,000 loan.

As an alternative, Company Able could lease the truck from Company Baker. Assume Company Baker also borrowed “at prime” from the same bank and that it would fund the truck purchase entirely from its bank borrowing. If there were no truck ownership tax advantages, the only way it could make a profit would be to charge a lease rate greater than its cost of funds. Thus, Company Able would have to pay something over prime rate to Company Baker, a not very attractive arrangement.

Although the above example is admittedly oversimplified and not completely realistic, it makes the point—when the lessor and the lessee have the same borrowing rate capabilities, leasing may not be the most economical way for a lessee to acquire equipment it needs unless the lessor is able to use available equipment ownership tax benefits, takes them into account as a lease profit ingredient and passes them on to a lessee though relative rental rate reductions, and the prospective lessee cannot use some or all of the ownership tax benefits. How this actually works is explained later in this book.

2.​The Lessor’s Tax Benefit

What tax benefits are available to the lessor? For equipment place in service before 1986, the lessor could obtain both ITC and depreciation deductions as an equipment owner. With limited exceptions, the 1986 TRA did away with the ITC for equipment placed in service after 1985. Thus, the significant tax benefits for the lessor today are basically the depreciation deductions available under the Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS), introduced by the 1986 TRA.

Under MACRS, a lessor generally can write off its equipment’s costs over a period significantly shorter than the equipment’s useful life and at an accelerated rate. For example, a lessor can deduct the cost of leased computer equipment over a six-year period with the percentages for each year as 20%, 32%, 19.2%, 11.52%, 11.52% and 5.76%. In a typical lease, the lessor’s deductions in the early years will exceed the rental income, permitting the lessor to offset other income with those excess deductions.

3.​The Lessee’s Tax Consequences

Basically, an equipment user decreases its tax benefits by becoming a lessee rather than an owner. As a lessee, the user can deduct its rental payments, but those will typically be less than the depreciation it could have deducted in earlier years. Then why should leasing be considered? As explained below, there are numerous financial and business reasons for a prospective lessee to lease rather than buy. Also, leasing is particularly attractive to equipment users who cannot take timely advantage of all of the depreciation deductions. Two types of users basically fall into this category; those who have negative taxable income and those with carryover losses, leaving them often with no taxable income to offset.. For those users, the rental payments charged by a lessor who is taking ownership tax benefits into account in setting its lease rate, can conceivably be worth more through the lower rent payments than the ownership tax benefits which cannot be used, or can only be partially used.

4.​The Importance of Lease Structuring

When the lessor anticipates tax benefits as a profit component, it will likely suffer an economic loss if those benefits are unavailable. Those benefits will be available only if the lessor remains the equipment owner for tax purposes. And the lessor will be treated as the tax owner only if the lease is a true lease for tax purposes. To qualify as a true lease for tax purposes certain tax guidelines must be met. These guidelines are explained in Chapter 8. Although as explained in that chapter, there is the possibility of some variation from the guidelines, it is advisable to comply with the following:

•​The lessor must make an economic profit, apart from the tax benefits, on the lease.

•​The lessor’s equity investment must be at least 20% of the equipment’s cost throughout the lease term.

•​The lessee cannot, with limited exceptions, make any investment in the property, or make any loan to the lessor.

•​Lessee purchase options must be at the equipment’s fair market value at the time of purchase.

•​The property must be usable by a party other than the lessee after the lease term’s end.

Poor lease structuring can lead to disaster for both the lessee and the lessor. If the transaction does not qualify as a true lease for tax purposes, the lessee will not be able to deduct the rental payments and the lessor cannot use the ownership tax benefits. For example, if the lease was successfully classified by the Internal Revenue Service as a loan, the lessee would be deemed the equipment owner and the lessor deemed the lender. Then, if the lessee cannot use any tax benefits and the lessor must have them for the transaction to make economic sense, everyone loses.

Observation: While all leases must be true leases for the lessor to obtain tax benefits, for leases where the lease term is significantly shorter than the equipment’s useful life and the lessor has not amortized its equipment cost through rent payments over the lease term, there will be little risk that the lease will not be treated as a true lease, because the lessor’s ownership status will be clear. Generally, the closer the lease term comes to matching the equipment’s useful life to the lessee, the more attention that must be paid to the true lease tax rules.

C.​Who Are the Prospective Lessees?

Any equipment user is a prospective lessee. The users can range from multi-national corporations, to sole proprietorships, to individuals using equipment for business reasons. Whether or not an equipment user should generally lease equipment it needs is another, more complicated question, and depends on a variety of factors that vary with each situation. These factors are reviewed in Section F of this chapter.

D.​Who Are the Potential Lessors?

In theory, any company in the financing business can be a potential lessor of equipment. However, because of the competitive nature of equipment leasing and the expertise required, only certain types of organizations are actively in the leasing market.

For discussion purposes, it is useful to separate the potential lessors into five categories: individuals, independent leasing companies, lease brokers, captive leasing companies, and banks. Prospective lessees will find the categories helpful in narrowing the field of potential lessors. And prospective lessors may find the categories helpful in determining their potential competition.

1.​Individuals

Prior to the 1986 TRA, the role of the individual as lessor was limited because of the rules restricting an individual from claiming ITCs on leased property. Now that ITC is no longer available to lessors, wealthy individuals can be more rate competitive. This coupled with the fact that they often will take greater business risks than a traditional leasing company can make them a good choice in difficult financing situations. A few innovative equipment leasing companies and investment bankers developed over the years interesting investment programs for individuals that have made them, at times, a part of the equipment financing business. For example, some railcar lessors set up individual investor programs that provide individuals with opportunities to invest in short-term railcar leases.

An individual considering becoming an equipment lessor must, however, now contend with the passive loss rules. An explanation of those rules is outside the scope of this book, and the reader is generally referred to Internal Revenue Code Section 469 for further information. These rules are complex and, at times, ambiguous and there has generally been some disagreement over the correct application of these rules. A prospective lessee receiving a lease proposal from an individual lessor, however, need not be concerned with the passive loss rules, except to be sure that any indemnities do not require the lessee to reimburse the lessor for deductions lost under those rules.

A Word of Caution: A prospective lessee considering leasing from an individual must look at more than any rent advantage. For example, because individuals often take aggressive tax positions, they may run afoul of the income tax laws. The IRS may then put a lien on all the individual’s property, including the leased equipment. Also, individuals can be somewhat more arbitrary to deal with when variances from the lease terms are required.

2.​Independent Leasing Companies

Independent leasing companies provide a major source of equipment lease financing. Because leasing is their principal source of revenue, they have to be extremely aggressive and, in some cases, are willing to bend the tax rules for the lessee’s benefit to win a transaction. For example, some will give a lessee the right to buy the equipment at a low predetermined fixed price when the lease ends--a practice that can run the risk of adverse tax consequences. (See Chapter 6)

There are two types of independent leasing companies: those that merely buy and lease equipment to the user (“finance leasing companies”); and those that also offer other services, such as maintenance and repair of the equipment (“service leasing companies”).

a.​Finance Leasing Companies

Finance leasing companies--lessors of multi-millions of dollars of equipment each year--operate in much the same manner as banks or other financing companies. They do not maintain an equipment inventory, but rather, after agreeing on a lease with a prospective lessee, buy the specific equipment needed for the lease. The lessee orders and receives the equipment from the equipment vendor. When it arrives, the finance leasing company pays for it, takes title, and leases it to the equipment user.

Finance leasing companies typically write leases--referred to as finance leases-- that run from 70 to 80% of the equipment’s useful life. The total amounts received under these leases, including the rents payable and the equipment residual value proceeds, are usually sufficient to provide the lessor with a full return of his equipment investment and a profit. If the equipment purchase is leveraged with third-party debt, the rents will also be generally enough to cover the full repayment of the debt. This type of long-term lease is net to the lessee. That is, the lessee must assume substantially all the equipment ownership responsibilities, such as maintenance, taxes, and insurance.

b.​Service Leasing Companies

Service leasing companies provide nonfinancial services to lessees in addition to the equipment financing. Services may include equipment maintenance and repair or advice on the equipment’s operation and design. Service leases have become increasingly popular for prospective lessees.

Service lessors typically limit their activity to a single type of equipment, such as computers, or to a single type of industry, such as the mining industry. The intense experience gained through the specialization enables them to reduce many leasing risks. For example, because they frequently handle used equipment, they know how to deal efficiently with equipment when it comes off lease, which, in turn, reduces their re-leasing or sale risk. And, because of that reduced risk, they can offer attractive lease termination or equipment exchange privileges.

Observation: Many industry participants believe that product specialization is less risky for a lessor than industry specialization. Reason: There is a greater likelihood that an industry specialized lessor would suffer more if its industry hit hard times than an equipment specialized lessor would if one of the industries in which its equipment was used hit hard times.

Service lessors often write leases with much shorter lease terms than finance leases. Typically nonpayout in nature, these leases do not permit the lessor to recoup its entire equipment investment during the first lease term. Thus, to recover its investment and make a profit, the service lessor must continue to re-lease the equipment. If the equipment becomes obsolete sooner than expected, the lessor may incur a loss. To be compensated for taking that high risk, and for providing other services, service lessors will generally charge higher rents than finance lessors, often buried in “package” payments that includes the rental charge for the equipment and the payment of services provided.

When should a prospective lessee consider using a service leasing company? Basically, when the lessee needs the specialized services offered by the service lessor or wants a shorter lease term or early termination rights. A user may want the shorter term, when, for example, there is a high risk of equipment obsolescence or where the user’s industry is in a down cycle.

Recommendation: A prospective lessee considering leasing equipment that it may want to return early should compare the higher rents typically payable under a shorter term lease offered by service lessors against the lower rents, and early termination penalty, typically payable under a longer term finance lease offered by financial lessors. Frequently, the short term lease is economically preferable, because finance lease termination penalties are often substantial. Reason: Financial lessors do not have as strong a remarketing capability as the service lessors and thus want to avoid takin any risk of not getting it full principal back with interest at least to the date of termination.

3.​Lease Brokers

Also referred to as “lease underwriters” or “syndicators,” lease brokers package lease transactions for the account of third parties. Put simply, they match up prospective lessees with prospective lessor-investors. They charge a fee for their service--usually ranging from 0.75% to 8% of the leased equipment’s cost--that is typically paid for by the lessor-investors. It should be noted, however, that the fee is in effect built into the lease rents so the lessor-investors get their acceptable net economic investment.

To put the lease broker’s role into perspective, it is helpful to understand how a broker normally operates. Generally, a lease broker begins by contacting all types of equipment users and vendors to determine whether they have any leasing needs. In the case of a prospective lessee, it will define the rough parameters through discussions with the prospective lessee. At this juncture, the broker may perform a credit check on the prospective lessee to make sure the credit is marketable. If there are not any problems, the broker will formulate a concise lease structure, including rental rate, and offer it to the equipment user, generally through a formal proposal letter.

If the user finds the proposed arrangement acceptable, the broker then proceeds to find prospective lessor-investors, commonly referred to as equity or investor participants, which in the case of smaller transactions, is often an independent leasing company. If the transaction is to be leveraged with third-party debt, a leverage lease, it may also put out feelers for prospective lenders, commonly referred to as debt participants. In the case of larger transaction the debt side is usually handled by an investment banker. Having located the equity and, if applicable, the debt participants, the broker proceeds to shepherd the transaction through documentation to completion.

Although generally acting exclusively as a broker, a lease underwriter may, on occasion, invest some of its own funds in the equipment along with other third-party lessor-investors and, thereby, become a part owner. By doing so, the lease underwriter can add credibility to the investment and thus be able to sell the lease transaction to potential investors more readily.

One of lease broker’s major assets is its knowledge of the leasing industry. Because the broker is continually in the market, it will know where to find competitive, cooperative, and realistic equity participants. And it will know how to get those equity participants to agree to what meets the lessee’s needs, including, for example, lease rates, overall transaction structure, and documentation.

Recommendations:

•​A prospective lessee considering a finance lease arrangement should invite a cross section of brokers to quote, in addition to regular lessors. Because of their ability to find aggressive equity participants, lease brokers will add a new dimension to the bidding environment.

•​There is a risk in dealing with brokers for a prospective lessee. If they cannot find the funding participants, the prospective lessee must start over looking for financing. A prospective lessee, therefore, should put some realistic performance time limits on any broker arranging the funding, and plan for any non-performance possibilities by, for example, having a backup leasing company ready in the event there is a funding problem.

4.​Captive Leasing Companies

In increasing numbers, equipment vendors are setting up their own leasing companies, generally referred to as captive leasing companies, to service their customers. Although the purpose is usually to offer lease financing on equipment sold by an affiliated company, some captive leasing companies also may be willing to buy and lease equipment sold by a nonaffiliated company, particularly if it includes equipment sold by its affiliate.

A captive leasing company marketing an affiliated company’s equipment can often offer attractive rates. Reason: When it markets its affiliated company’s equipment, that company makes a sale profit, and the captive lessor can then work with a lower financing profit than other types of lessors. Coupled with its knowledge of the equipment’s potential residual value, this can result in attractive rents for a lessee.

Recommendation: When considering a certain vendor’s equipment, a prospective lessee should always find out whether the vendor has a captive leasing company. If so, the vendor’s captive leasing company should be asked to submit a lease quotation.

Observation: Although captive leasing companies have a theoretical advantage over other types of lessors because of their connection with the vendor in practice they often do not know how to take advantage of that position effectively. Perhaps this is because the equipment vendors generally do not have extensive experience in using leasing as a marketing tool and may not support the leasing operation as fully as they could.

5.​Banks

Many banks, particularly national banks, are actively involved in equipment leasing. They usually deal only with net finance leases because of regulatory requirements and because those leases provide the least risk and most similarity to their lending activity. (Finance leases are explained later in this chapter at Section E,1.)

Banks have not been generally inclined to take aggressive equipment residual value positions, thus resulting in potentially higher market lease rates. That, however, has changed in the last decade because of the competitive nature of the leasing business. That said, however, their cost of funds in many cases is lower than that of nonbank lessors, often offsetting any conservative residual value positions.

The terms and rates offered by bank lessors often vary significantly from one transaction to the next over a period of time. Internal bank policies may contribute to that variation. Banks are not as dependent as most nonbank lessors on their leasing activities for revenues and so can afford to miss out on many deals. Periodically, however, they can go on major drives for lease business and, at those times, can be extremely rate aggressive.

There is a hidden risk dealing with banks. Since leasing is not considered their main line of business, if they experience general financial difficulties, as they have in the late 1980s and early 1990s, their leasing department is usually one of the first to go. Management’s rationale is that they must go back to basics to get their financial house in order. Chase Manhattan Bank’s sale of their profitable leasing subsidiaries in 1991 is a good example of what can happen when a bank experiences general financial problems.

Recommendation: Given the unpredictability of bank lessors’ responses to potential lease transactions and their commitment to the business, a prospective lessee is well advised to avoid relying exclusively on one to service all its financing needs.

Many bank lessors operate with a limited lease marketing staff. As a result, the transactions they see are fundamentally limited to those coming in through their existing bank customers or lease brokers. There are, however, a significant number of bank lessors with strong marketing organizations that, as a group, is a major factor in the equipment leasing marketplace.

It is worth mentioning that banks directly participate in the leasing market in another major way: They frequently act as lenders in leveraged lease transactions.

E.​Types of Leases

Significant differences exist among the various types of leases. Unfortunately, the industry jargon used to label the different types is sometimes less than precise. Further compounding the problem is the fact that many hybrid arrangements have surfaced that cross over the lines of the standard descriptive terminology. Once the fundamental characteristics of different leases are identified and understood, however, the confusion can be eliminated.

For explanation purposes, it will be helpful to separate all equipment leases in two main categories: Financial leases and operating leases. The financial, or finance, lease typically represents a long-term lease commitment in which the sum of the rents due will approximate the equipment’s purchase cost. Decisions to enter into a financial lease should be part of a company’s financial, as opposed to operating, policy considerations. All equipment leases not fitting within the financial lease category can be put into the operating lease category. Because operating leases involve shorter term financial commitments, decisions as to their use can come within the scope of a company’s operating policy.

Within those two broad categories, there are a number of basic variations: Leverage leases, nonleveraged leases, and service leases. These variations are sometimes incorrectly considered to be separate types of leases rather than what they are, descriptive forms of the basic types. For example, finance leases can be leveraged leases or nonleveraged leases, and service leases can be financial or operating in nature. They will, however, be explained individually to give the reader a working perspective.

Table 1-1 sets out a general overview of some fundamental lease characteristics.

1.​The Finance Lease

A common type of equipment lease, finance leases are considered long-term leases because the primary, or main, lease term usually runs for most of the equipment’s useful life. Typically, the total cash flow over the primary term--from rents, tax savings, and the end-of-lease equipment re-sale or re-lease (residual) value--will be sufficient to pay back the lessor’s investment, take care of his administrative expenses, pay off any equipment-related debt obligations and commissions, and provide a profit. Because they are entered into by lessors as long-term financial commitments, finance lessors usually impose a substantial repayment penalty for a lessee’s early lease termination in an amount that will assure the lessor of a return of its investment and a profit, at least up to the date of termination.

Consistent with its financial nature, a finance lease is usually a net lease. A net lease means that the fundamental ownership responsibilities, such as maintaining and repairing the equipment, paying for the necessary insurance, and taking care of property, use, and sales taxes, are placed on the lessee. A net finance lease can be compared to an equipment loan in that the lessor, like a lender, is involved only in asset funding. The lessor’s only basic responsibilities are to pay for the equipment, lease it to the lessee for the agreed-on term, and not interfere with its use.

Because a finance lease’s term runs for most of the equipment’s useful life, the lessee, in effect, bears most of the risk of the equipment becoming obsolete. The degree of obsolescence risk that the finance lessor assumes depends on the equipment’s anticipated end-of-lease term, or residual, value. If, for example, a lessor computes the rent based on a zero equipment residual value at the lease term’s end, the lessor has no residual value risk and, thus, no obsolescence risk. This, of course, presumes there is not risk of premature equipment return as a result, for instance, of a lessee default. As a practical matter, however, a lessor must generally use a residual value greater than zero to be price competitive, particularly in larger transactions. The risk of obsolescence would then be on the lessor to the extent of the value estimated. If its profit is in part dependent on the anticipated residual value, the greater the risk of obsolescence the greater the chance the transaction will not turn out to be as profitable as anticipated.

One of a financial lessor’s principal concerns is the protection of its investment in the event of a lease default or an equipment casualty. Toward this end, finance leases usually include provisions to make the lessor whole if any of these events occur. From a casualty loss standpoint, the lease may include what are often referred to as stipulated loss value provisions. These provisions set out the amount the lessee must pay the lessor if an equipment casualty occurs, depending on when it occurs. The amount of the stipulated loss value is intended to guarantee the lessor a return of its investment, reimburse it for any tax benefit losses, and assure it of at least some of its anticipated profit. These stipulated loss values are also sometimes used as a measure of lease default damages, although there are other methods for measuring default damages.

Finance leases frequently contain a “hell or high water” rent commitment. Under this type of obligation, a lessee must pay the full rent when due unconditionally and cannot reduce the amount paid even though it has a legitimate claim against the lessor for money owed. This is not as bad as it sounds for a lessee, because it can still bring a lawsuit against the lessor for any claims.

The hell or high water rent provision is critical for a finance lessor to have in a leverage lease transaction, where it wants to borrow money to purchase the equipment on a nonrecourse loan basis. Reason: In a nonrecourse loan, the lender agrees to look only to the lessee’s rent payments and the equipment for a return of his investment. With a hell or high water provision, the lender need not be concerned that a dispute between the lessor and the lessee will result in the lessee’s withholding rent.

2.​The Operating Lease

Where a lease’s primary term is significantly shorter than the equipment’s useful life, the lease is often referred to as an operating lease. Operating leases typically run anywhere from a few months to a few years, although some are as short as a few hours.

Because the lease terms are relatively short, an operating lessor usually cannot earn much of its equipment investment back through the rents from one lease transaction. Thus, it must either sell or re-lease the equipment on attractive terms to come out ahead. The danger to an operating lessor, of course, is that the equipment’s market value will be inadequate to allow it to sell or re-lease it on economically favorable terms. In other words, it has the risk of equipment obsolescence. As a result, such a lessor will attempt to earn its money back faster to lessen its investment exposure by charging higher rent than a finance lessor.

Their short lease terms and easy cancellation provisions make operating leases attractive to users in several situations. One is where the user anticipates using the equipment only for a short time, such as with certain types of rail cars or aircraft. Another is where the user wants to be able to change equipment if something better comes out. For this reason, users often lease computer equipment under operating leases because of constant technological improvements.

3.​The Leverage Lease

A leveraged lease is one where a percentage of the funds to buy the equipment, usually 60% to 80%, is loaned to the lessor by a bank or other lender. Because the lessor has put up only a small percentage of the equipment’s cost, its investment is said to be leveraged because its economic return is based on 100% of the cost. Leveraging generally enables a lessor to provide a lessee with relatively lower rents while at the same time maintaining its return. Frequently, net finance leases are structure as leveraged leases.

The debt used to leverage a lease transaction is usually nonrecourse debt. Where debt is nonrecourse, the lender has no recourse against the lessor for nonpayment of the loan, but rather must look only to the rental stream, the lessee, and the value of the equipment for its repayment. In such an arrangement, the lessor must assign to the lender its rights under the lease, including the right to the rental payments.

Observation: While a lessor has no repayment obligations to a nonrecourse lender if the lessee defaults, it does bear some risk because its rights against the lessee and the equipment are subordinated to the lender’s repayment rights.

4.​The Nonleveraged Lease

Also referred to as an unleveraged or straight lease, a nonleveraged lease is one in which the lessor pays for the equipment from entirely its own funds. Leasing companies often enter into nonleveraged leases.

A distinct advantage in using a nonleveraged lease structure is that there are usually only two principals involved in the actual financing, the lessee and the lessor. Because of the limited number of parties, the mechanics of putting together a transaction are simpler, saving time and documentation costs, such as legal fees. One disadvantage for a lessee, however, is that the rent is usually higher than it would be if the lease were leveraged.

5.​The Service Lease

Leases in which the lessor assumes equipment ownership responsibilities, such as maintenance, repair, insurance, or record keeping, in addition to providing the asset financing, are usually called service leases. Service leases generally had relatively short lease terms, although, today, service lease are increasingly being offered with longer terms because of equipment user requests.

F.​The Pros and Cons of Leasing

Leasing is not always the best way for every user to acquire equipment. In some circumstances, it is advisable; in others, buying equipment is the right decision. Whether or not to lease certain equipment is not always an easy decision, and in each situation the user must weigh all the advantages and disadvantages. This section will provide the reader with the basic considerations essential to a comprehensive evaluation.

Observation: Putting together a lease financing can require less red tape and time than in a loan transaction. As a result, there are situations in which the documentation time and expense that can be saved can offset an equipment lease interest rate that is higher than a loan interest rate. This is particularly true when the cost of the equipment involved is relatively small.

1.​Advantages of Leasing

a.​May Minimize Obsolescence Concerns

When a user is concerned that equipment may become obsolete before the end of its useful life, and, therefore, have little or no re-sale value, leasing can reduce that concern if the lessor assumes an obsolescence risk by basing part of its investment return on a significant end-of-lease equipment sale or re-lease value. [The greater the residual value assumed by the lessor, the less rent a lessee pays over the lease term.] Typically, high tech equipment users, where new, more efficient models quickly outdate their predecessors, are faced with an obsolescence issue.

As a practical matter, as long as the equipment does its job, does it really matter whether there is better equipment available? In some situations it does. For example, a more efficient item of manufacturing equipment can lower production costs by a sufficient amount so that the user would have to acquire a new model before the old model has been written off to insure its price-competitive position in the market. If a user had bought rather than leased the equipment, the overall cost of replacing it would be expensive. And if the old equipment’s market value was significantly less than its book value at the time of replacement, the user could be confronted with a potentially undesirable book loss in addition to the replacement cash outlay.

Observation: A lessor also runs the risk of financial loss through equipment obsolescence. Thus, to protect itself, it will undoubtedly build a premium into its rate to compensate for the risk. A prospective lessee may be willing to pay the premium as a form of insurance against a loss through obsolescence. Of course, if the equipment does not become obsolete the increased rental rate will have reduced the profits it could have made had it owned the equipment.

Recommendation: Because it is impossible to determine absolutely whether equipment will become obsolete, the obsolescence risk issue can cause a real dilemma. Evaluating the past history of the type of equipment under consideration can be helpful in predicting trends. Also, the user can estimate the impact on profits of continuing to use the older, technologically obsolete equipment.

b.​Ideal When There Are Limited Use Needs

If equipment is needed only for a limited period of time, leasing can be an effective way of acquiring its use. It eliminates the re-marketing risks an owner would have at the end of a short use period, and it also permits a more defined estimate of the effective cost of using the equipment. For example, a public utility building its own plant often must acquire certain specialized construction equipment to do the job. Once the plant is finished, the equipment may be of no further use to the utility, but it may still have many years of useful life left. If it cannot be sold for a reasonable price, the overall cost of its use can be high. Leasing removes the resale risk and allows the utility to determine in advance the total effective usage cost.

c.​Preserves Capital

An advantage of leasing to some users is that it helps preserve their existing funds or bank lines of credit for other uses. The absence of a down payment--in effect 100% financing--can assist high growth rate companies in maximizing their use of funds. That can be particularly attractive in periods of tight money.

Observation: When evaluating whether to lease or to buy equipment, a user must carefully consider the real cost of borrowed funds. For example, a high compensating balance requirement can easily increase the effective cost of a bank loan. As this type of collateral loan cost increases, the attractiveness of leasing usually increases.

d.​Obtain Value-Added Technical or Administrative Services

Users lacking the staff or expertise to attend to specialized equipment needs can lease equipment as a way to acquire those necessary technical or administrative services. Through service leases, users can avoid tying up time and manpower in activities that are outside of their normal operations. There is, of course, generally a charge, built into the rent, for the nonfinancial services supplied. Typically, lessors of office equipment, trucks, automobiles, and railcars offer some form of nonfinancial services as a supplement to their financing. For example, railcar lessors frequently offer maintenance services.

e.​A Way Around Certain Borrowing Problems

Users with credit or borrowing problems may have an easier time getting leasing companies to fund their equipment needs as leasing companies often impose less stringent financial requirements than traditional lenders. Reason: They are willing to take greater risks because (1) they actually own the equipment and (2)they can more readily handle used equipment than can traditional lenders, if they must take possession from a defaulting lessee.

This is not to say that leasing companies will provide equipment financing to a user regardless of its financial condition. There still must be a reasonable assurance that the user will be able to meet the lease payments.

f.​A Way To Trade Tax Benefits For Lower Rent

It is common for a user to be in a situation in which it cannot use the general tax benefits--currently depreciation deductions--that would result from equipment ownership. It may, for example, have an excess of accumulated tax benefits or insufficient earnings, due to poor performance or to major acquisitions, which have used up its tax bill. Such a company can indirectly take advantage of most of the ownership tax benefits through leasing from a tax-sensitive lessor. Because such a lessor takes these tax benefits into account when calculating the transaction’s economic return, it, in effect, passes these benefits through in the form of a relatively lower rent.

Observation: A lessor will not pass 100% of the equipment ownership tax benefits on to a lessee through a reduced rental charge. It will make a profit on those benefits by adjusting the rent to reflect only a partial recognition. The rent adjustments vary with each lessor and each situation.

g.​Can By-Pass Capital Budget Restrictions

Decisions to lease equipment are sometimes made to avoid a user’s internal capital budget restrictions. For capital equipment purchases above a certain amount, a manager may be required to obtain prior approval, and that approval may be difficult or impossible to obtain. If the equipment is leased, it may be able to account for the rental payments as an operating expense--even though the lease represents a long-term financing similar to a capital expenditure--to get around the approval problem. In this way, it may also be able to maximize its capital budget.

Observation: Top management in an increasing number of companies have prescribed rules in this area to avoid budget end-running, particularly with finance leases. For example, since long-term equipment leases can have a significant negative future impact on a company’s earnings, particularly when cutbacks are necessary, very often these transactions require senior management or board of director approval.

h.​Inflation Hedge

Leasing equipment can provide a hedge against inflation. An equipment lease, in effect, gives the equipment user the ability to acquire equipment it needs at today’s prices and, then, paying for it from tomorrow’s earnings.

i.​Possible Increased Cash Flow

Leasing equipment may be more cost-effective than purchasing it entirely with internal funds, or through the use of an equipment loan. Accordingly, the less the user has to pay to acquire necessary equipment, the more cash it has available--e.g., its cash flow is increased.

j.​Possible Off-Balance Sheet Benefit

Although no longer still a general leasing benefit, it is worth mentioning an old advantage that may, to a limited extent, be available in some long-term lease situations. In the early days of leasing, many users leased equipment, instead of taking out long-term loans to buy equipment, to avoid burdening their balance sheet with long-term debt liabilities. The lease, regardless of its duration, was basically treated in such a manner that its rent payments were deemed to be an operating expense. As a result, a company’s profit to fixed asset ratios were improved that, in turn, generally permitted a greater bank borrowing capability. Today, the circumstances have changed. Regardless of whether significant leases obligations have to be recorded on the balance sheet or not, many sophisticated lenders factor them into their evaluation of a company’s financial condition. Also, and certainly most important, the accounting rules now effectively eliminate the traditional “off balance sheet” benefit. In some situations, however, it is still possible to structure a long-term lease so, for financial reporting purposes, the rent payments due will not have to be reported as a long-term liability, but rather can be reported as incurred as an operating expense.

k.​Financing Flexibility

The ability to obtain flexible financing is an important reason companies lease equipment. Prospective lessees have the ability to have the terms and conditions of a lease arrangement structured to address their specific business needs. For example, lease arrangements can be structured with a variety of lessee options, such as fair market or fixed price equipment purchase options, fair market or fixed price lease term renewal options, early lease termination options, equipment upgrade options, and sublease options. They can be set up with varying rent payment structures, such as low/high or high/low rent payments, and skipped rent payments during industry down cycles, as well as varying rent periodicity, such as payments monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually, in advance or arrears. Master lease arrangements are available, which permit equipment delivered at varying times in the future to be simply added to an existing lease contract. Leases can include equipment maintenance and repair.

2.​Disadvantages of Leasing

a.​Residual Upside is Lost

When a user leases equipment, unless it has a favorable purchase option at lease end, it forgoes the possibility of realizing a gain if the equipment appreciates in value during the lease term. Any such gain instead goes to the lessor. This is a common occurrence. For example, through inflation or buyer demand, a 10-year old river barge may be worth more than it originally cost.

Many leases give lessees the option to buy the leased equipment at the lease term’s end for its fair market value at that time. If the fair market value turns out to be high, the purchase price, coupled with the rent paid, can result in a very expensive transaction. In such a situation, the lessee would undoubtedly have been better off if it had originally bought the equipment. The problem is that there is no way of telling what the future value is going to be.

There is, however, one way for a prospective lessee to limit its cost exposure if it believes it is likely it will want to buy the equipment at the end of the term and, also, share in any residual upside--a fixed price purchase option. Under this option, a lessee has the right to buy the equipment at the end of a lease at a fixed price, say 25% of original cost, which was agreed on at the time the parties entered into the lease. If the equipment’s market value at the lease term’s end is high, say 75% of cost, the lessee has the option of taking advantage of the favorable market by buying it for 25% of cost and selling it for 75% of cost. There are, however, two problems with fixed price purchase options. First, not all lessors are willing to grant them and give up their residual upside. Second, fixed price purchase options can jeopardize a lease’s true lease status for tax purposes.

Recommendation: If a prospective lessor is willing to grant a fixed price purchase right at, say, 35% of cost, the prospective lessee should request that it be at 35% of cost or the equipment’s fair market value, whichever is less. This way, if the equipment’s market value at the time of the option’s exercise is lower than the fixed price, the lessee will not have to pay more than the equipment is worth if a purchase is necessary.

Frequently, a prospective lessee’s concern over the loss of residual value upside is more emotional than practical. The potential loss must always be kept in the proper economic perspective. This can be done by attempting to put a realistic value on it by, for example, bringing in a qualified appraiser to give an opinion as to what the equipment is likely to be worth in the future and discounting the value to its present worth.

Illustrative Example - A Residual Perspective

Company Able is considering whether to lease or buy a heavy duty crane. Company Able’s financial vice president recommends that it be leased; however, the operational vice president believes that it should be bought because of its favorable market value at the end of the period of use. The facts are as follows:

Crane cost..............................................................$3 million

Lease term...............................................................20 years

Depreciated book value at end of 20 years.............$300,000

If the market value of the crane is estimated to be $500,000 at the end of the lease term, Company Able would lose the chance at a $200,000 upside gain ($500,000-$300,00) if it leased the equipment.

What if, however, the potential loss is considered in terms of current dollars? The present value of such a loss 20 years out, computed using an annual discount rate of 10%, is approximately $30,000. Compared to the original cost of $3 million and considering the fact that the upside gain may not materialize, the residual concern may be overstated, particularly if any down payment that would have been required if a purchase was put to productive use.

b.​Equipment Control May Be Limited

When a lease ends, so does a lessee’s right to use the equipment. This can create a problems for an equipment user if suitable replacement equipment is not readily available and the lessor refuses to re-lease or sell it to the lessee. While purchase or renewal options theoretically eliminate this risk, from a practical standpoint, when a third party owns the equipment, there is no guarantee it will abide by the terms of the options voluntarily. Also, there is always the possibility, although remote, that a lessor, or the lessor’s creditors, will interfere with the lessee’s right to use the equipment during the lease term, even though it may have no legal right to do so. Having the legal right of continued use may be of little consequence to a lessee when equipment essential to its continued operations becomes unavailable.

3.​Key Situations: When to Consider Leasing

In summary, there are certain indicators that suggest an equipment user should seriously consider leasing:

•​If an equipment user must pay high interest rates for money borrowed, leasing can be an economically attractive equipment funding alternative. Users whose credit dictates high interest rates, however, may also dictate high leasing rates. Reason: The lessor must offset the increased credit risks by increased returns. The cost of leasing, however, will probably not increase proportionately as high as the cost of borrowing.

•​An equipment user who cannot use a significant part or all of the equipment ownership tax benefits may come out ahead by leasing. This, of course, assumes the tax benefits can be used by the leasing company, and the benefits are passed through in the form of a relatively lower rental rate.

•​Leasing is desirable when the equipment involved has unusual service problems that cannot be handled by a company internally, for example, because of the technical nature of the equipment or the company’s inadequate staffing.

•​If implicit lease interest rates are about the same as debt interest rates and there are significant ancillary costs to borrowing, such as high compensating balances or commitment fees, leasing should be considered.

G.​When-to-Lease Checklist

An equipment user should consider leasing when one or more of the following factors is present:

•​There is a high risk that equipment will become obsolete before the end of its useful life.

•​The equipment will be needed only for a short period of time.

•​It is desirable to maximize available capital resources.

•​Technical, administrative, or other nonfinancial equipment related services that are not internally available can be easily secured from a leasing company.

•​High interest rates must be paid for borrowed money.

•​The tax benefits resulting from the equipment ownership cannot be used.

•​The equipment will have a poor market value at the end of its term of use.

H.​Checklist for Prospective Lessees Approaching Potential Lessors

As the preliminary step in considering a lease transaction, an equipment user should review the following:

What basic type of lease arrangement is to be considered?

•Nonleveraged finance lease(Author’s Note: If you want a long-term lease and you need to get your lease in place in a hurry, this may be the best choice.)
(1) Net Lease(Author’s Note: If you don’t need the lessor to provide any equipment services, such as maintenance, a net lease is the lease of choice.)
•Leveraged finance lease(Author’s Note: This may provide the lowest long-term lease rate, but can take the longest to document because of third-party lender involvement.)
(1) Net Lease(Author’s Note: See same category comment for the nonleveraged lease.)
•Operating Lease(Author’s Note: This is the lease to use when you only want equipment for a short period of time, or you want lessor-supplied services, such as on-going equipment maintenance.)

(1) Long-term

(2)Short-term

(3) Nonfinancial services required

What potential sources of lease financing will be invited to submit lease quotations?

•Individuals(Author’s Note: A good choice if you need an aggressive lessor.)
•Independent nonbank leasing companies(Author’s Note: They should always be invited to bid. They are often the most innovative.)

(1) Finance lessors

(2)Service lessors

•Banks or other financial institutions(Author’s Note: They typically offer fair lease documentation, but lease interest rates may vary depending on their internal needs.)
•Captive leasing companies(Author’s Note: If your equipment supplier has one, ask its captive lessor to bid on your lease transaction. Although they have the capability to offer the lowest lease rate, they rarely do. But it never hurts to ask.
•Lease brokers(Author’s Note: The good ones can bring solid value-added benefits to your lease situation. Know, however, who you are dealing with-some are not as ethical as they should be.)

If an individual is under consideration:

•​Has the individual been involved in lease transactions before?

•​Does the individual have experienced lease advisors and management representatives to assist him or her if transactions issues arise in the future?

If an independent nonbank leasing company is under consideration:

•​Does it have a good reputation in the financial community?

•​Have other existing lessees been contacted to determine how difficult it may be to deal with?

•​Is its financial condition sufficient to ensure adequate and timely finding?

•​Will the equipment be funded entirely from the lessor’s own finds?

•​If equipment related nonfinancial services will be supplied, does it have an adequate staff and facilities to supply these services on a timely basis?

•​How tough is the lessor’s lease documentation? (A form of the lessor’s lease should be reviewed before granting any lease award.)

If the prospective lessee’s regular bank will be involved, will the lease restrict its future loan availability?

If a lease broker is under consideration:

•​How many similar transactions has it completed in the last three years?

•​What do other companies that have used its service say about its method of operation and its ability to follow through on a proposed transaction?

•​Are there any banks or other prospective lessor-investors that should not be approached by the broker?

I.​Summary

The concept of leasing equipment is simple, a lessor acquires an assets and leases it to the lessee for an agreed-upon time period. The economic and business decision, however, on both the lessor’s and the lessee’s part, is not simple. For each there are many factors that must be understood and assessed before engaging in a lease transactions—including tax, accounting, financial, business and legal considerations. Most important for the lessor is its credit worthiness assessment of a prospective lessee and how much money can make by entering into a lease. For the prospective lessee, most important is determining whether leasing, as opposed to buying, equipment is an economically attractive alternative—assessing the pros and cons. And, for the prospective lessee, this cannot effectively be done without understanding what types of lease arrangements are available, and what are the best lessors to use for a given situation.

cKH

CHAPTER 2

The Proposal Stage-Where the Leasing Deal Is made

A.​Overview

Chapter 1 discusses a variety of lessor and lease alternatives open to a prospective lessee in considering a lease financing. All too often, prospective lessees approach these alternatives in an inefficient and disorganized manner. As a result, many pay too much and miss out on benefits they could receive. And some prospective lessors, failing to consider the many financing approaches, loose lessee financing opportunities.

This chapter provides guidelines to prospective lessees and lessors on how to efficiently set up a lease financing in an organized manner. The objective for both parties, during what is referred to as the “proposal stage,” is to enter into a comprehensive outline line of the leasing deal the parties intend to enter into--through the use of a lease proposal letter. By following the chapter guidelines, a prospective lessee and lessor can achieve maximum results.

B.​Obtaining Bids – The Request-For-Bids Letter

Assume we have an equipment user considering leasing some equipment. How does this prospective lessee get the best lease deal? First, it must shop the lease market to determine what options are available. And that requires the prospective lessee to secure a meaningful number of specific proposals from potential lessors and lease underwriters. There are a number of ways to do this. Typically, however, a prospective lessee will get the best results by preparing and circulating a well thought out and comprehensive written request-for-bids letter, commonly referred to as a bid letter.

While preparing a bid letter may be somewhat time consuming, it is an investment that will more than pay off. Such a letter will avoid time lost handling telephone calls or other inquiries from lessors and underwriters asking for additional information, or clarification of, the proposed deal’s basic facts. It ensures that the responses will be on a uniform, and thus comparable, basis making it easy to select the best offer. There is nothing more frustrating than receiving, say, five proposals, each with a different rental payment mode, such as quarterly, in advance; semi-annually, in arrears; semi-annually, in advance; monthly, in arrears; and monthly, in advance. Not only is valuable time lost in making comparisons, but, even worse, there is a risk that re-quotes will be necessary because making valid comparisons may be impossible.

Another advantage to using a bid letter is that it will cause everyone concerned on the lessee’s side to focus on what they need or would like to obtain from the leasing transaction. Generally if a prospective lessee does not request a particular benefit, it will not be offered.

1.​Key Elements That Should Be Addressed

What issues should be covered in a comprehensive bid letter? Because the bid letter’s purpose is to yield proposals, it should address every subject necessary to make a comprehensive lease financing assessment. At a bare minimum, a prospective lessee should consider the following issues in putting together a bid letter:

•​The equipment type and the manufacturer.

•​The number of equipment units that will be involved.

•​The equipment’s aggregate and per unit cost.

•​When the equipment delivery is anticipated.

•​The lease type desired, that is, net financial lease or service lease.

•​The lease term and any renewal periods desired.

•​The rental payment mode, that is, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually - in advance or in arrears.

•​The extent of any acceptable tax indemnifications.

•​Whether the equipment will be self-insured.

•​What options are required.

•​A request for appropriate casualty and termination values.

•​Who will have the responsibility for the transaction’s fees and expenses.

•​Whether a tax ruling is necessary or desirable.

•​Whether it is acceptable for a favorable tax ruling to be a prerequisite to execute the lease documents.

•​Whether a favorable tax ruling should relieve any tax indemnification obligations assumed.

•​The deadline for the submission of lease quotations.

•​When the transaction will be awarded.

•​Whether underwriting bids are acceptable.

•​If underwriting proposals are permitted, whether the bids may be on a “firm’’ or “best-efforts’’ basis.

•​Potential equity participants and lenders who may be unacceptable if the transaction is to be underwritten.

These points are explained below in the context of describing the proposal letter. Section H of this chapter sets out a proposal stage checklist for the lessee.

C.​What Is the Proposal Letter?

After receiving and reviewing the bid letter, interested prospective lessors or underwriters will make their proposal responding to the bid letter’s terms. Their response should be written and is referred to as a proposal letter. The proposal letter is significant for several reasons. First, the letter will be the lessee’s first opportunity to make preliminary selections from among the respondents to its bid letter. Second, after reviewing the proposal letters received, the lessee may request changes or additions, and the letter forms the focal point for those negotiations. And third, after successful negotiations, the lessee will accept one of the letter offers, and the letter will become the basis for the later deal documentation. It is important that the proposal letter cover all business and major legal points.

1.​The Proposal Letter’s Legal Status

Before reviewing the substance of a typical proposal letter, it is important to understand legally what the proposal letter does and does not do. After the prospective lessee has signed the letter, do the parties have a contract? Yes and no. While they have a contract--usually the offer, and sometimes the acceptance, are qualified--conditions are imposed that must be satisfied after all parties have signed the lease proposal. Typical conditions, for example, are:

•​Necessary governmental or regulatory approvals, licenses, or authorizations.

•​Favorable opinions of counsel.

•​The effective placement of the debt, in the case of a leveraged lease.

•​Acceptable financial covenants, such as a minimum debt-to equity ratio.

•​Satisfactory audited financial statements.

•​Mutually satisfactory documentation.

•​Formal transaction approvals by the prospective equity participants and lenders.

•​A minimum dollar participation of equity and debt participants.

•​A detailed equipment list.

•​Favorable equipment appraisals justifying the equipment residual value.

The “satisfactory documentation’’ condition gives the transaction’s participants the most latitude to find justification to back out if they so desire. Reason: Unless the parties can reach agreement on each term and condition contained in the lease documents, they don’t have to go through with the transaction. This condition leaves room for some wide open discussions on issues not even anticipated in the proposal stage, such as whether the lessee should pay for the equipment’s return to any location designated by the lessor.

While the accepted proposal letter is usually not legally enforceable because of these conditions, it is important, for a number of reasons, that it be comprehensive, detailed, and in writing, keeping in mind the following:

•​While may not be legally enforceable, the parties will almost always make significant efforts to complete the deal once the proposal letter has been accepted.

•​The proposal letter serves as the guideline and reminder for the parties and their lawyers when they draft the documents

•​While unlikely it is possible that if a party unreasonably backs out of the deal after the proposal letter has been accepted, it might form the basis of a legal action. This is so, particularly if financial obligations have been incurred on the other side.

Thus, a comprehensive and formal proposal letter is beneficial to both parties, and should be used in every transaction,

2.​Proposal Stage Negotiating Strategies

Because the major terms are decided and the lessor or underwriter is selected during the proposal stage, that stage is often determinative of the transaction. Besides focusing on specific terms and conditions, the prospective lessee should keep in mind that, during the bidding stage, it has a considerable amount of negotiating leverage, particularly if more than one bidder is involved. One bidder’s loss will not jeopardize the transaction, and the bidders know it. Thus, the lessee’s time to press for the tough concessions is before awarding the transaction. Prospective lessors are sometimes willing to concede points just to win the deal. Once the transaction has been awarded, the winning bidder is in a stronger negotiating position merely by virtue of the fact that the other bidders are no longer involved.

A prospective lessee’s negotiating position will also be improved if it plans adequate lead time between a lease award and the equipment delivery. In this way, if problems develop after the award, there may still be time to go elsewhere for the financing. If this is not possible, and the prospective lessor starts to “get tough,” some balance can be put back into the negotiations by letting it be known that because of the problems, the lessee is considering buying rather than leasing.

From the potential lessor’s perspective, the negotiating strategy in the bidding stage is the reverse--the faster it can get a prospective lessee to “sign off” on a proposal letter, the less likely that the lessee will make a problem request. Once the lease documentation has begun, particularly if there are near-term equipment deliveries, a prospective lessor’s negotiating position is improved. Psychologically, a prospective lessee is more reluctant to start over with new people once the document negotiations have started.

D.​What Issues Should The Proposal Letter Address?

Stated simply, the proposal letter should outline the lease “deal.” The letter does not have to cover every detail, but it should set the framework for the overall lease arrangement. To do this, however, the parties must know what points should be covered.

Recommendation: If an important point comes up after a proposal letter has been accepted by a prospective lessee, but before the lease documentation has begun, the parties should consider amending the letter to include the point. This helps eliminate deal point “misunderstandings” from arising during documentation.

Typically, although an underwritten leveraged lease situation will be more complex than non-underwritten transactions, they usually contain most of the same basic elements. By understanding the more complex transaction format, the others will fall into place and, thus, the following explanation will center on issues that should be addressed in an underwritten leveraged lease proposal.

1.​What Is the Offer?

While all proposals will offer to provide equipment financing, proposals from different types of bidders have different consequences to the lessee. One type of proposal is a direct offer by a prospective lessor to lease the equipment to the prospective lessee and another is an offer by an underwriter to arrange the lease financing of the equipment for the prospective lessee. In the latter case, the underwriter may or may not have a specific third-party lessor in mind. Even if it does, the name usually will not be disclosed in the proposal to protect its position as a broker.

Illustrative Language-Lessor Designation: An unknown or undisclosed lessor may be described by an underwriter in the following manner: The lessor will be a trustee acting as owner trustee pursuant to an owner’s trust for the benefit of one or more corporate investors.

In a non-underwritten transaction, the prospective lessor will make an offer directly as principal to lease the equipment to the prospective lessee. For example: ABC Leasing Company will purchase and lease to XYZ Company the equipment designated in this proposal under the terms and conditions specified herein.

Recommendations:

•​In an underwriting situation, a prospective lessee is in a better position if it does not make an award to a particular underwriter until the underwriter has disclosed the prospective lessor, and someone with authority to represent the lessor has been contacted by the prospective lessee to confirm their interest. If there is going to be a problem, the time to find out is when the remaining bidders are still in the picture.

•​An underwriter should make sure its proposal is only an offer to arrange the proposed financing, unless it is fully prepared to step in as lessor in the event a third-party investor cannot be found.

There are many types of offer combinations. For example, a direct lessor could offer to purchase and lease equipment using in part its own funds and in part funds from a nonrecourse loan, a simple form of leveraged lease. Or, an underwriter may offer to put together a leveraged lease using one or more lessor-investors and one or more third-party lenders. Another alternative is that the underwriter may propose to bring in a “single source” investor to act as lessor, such as a regional bank, that would pay for the equipment entirely from its own funds.

To the prospective lessee, the choice among the different variations represents a tradeoff between delivery and price. A prospective lessee seeking a near-term equipment delivery situation may be well advised to limit its consideration to a direct lessor transaction, because dealing with one party directly will lessen the risk that the financing cannot be done within the short time frame. If there is plenty of time, the best approach may be to pursue a syndicated leveraged lease transaction. This type of transaction will certainly be more involved, but it can provide the best rental rate for a prospective lessee.

Because the amount of lead time available before the equipment will be delivered may dictate the type of transaction that can be considered, it is essential that all parties keep this aspect in mind. Table 2-1 following below can be used as a general guide for planning the timing of a proposed lease financing.

2.​‘Best Efforts’ or Firm Offer

Typically, in its proposal, a lease underwriter will state whether the offer is made on a “best efforts” or on a “firm” basis. A best efforts proposal is nothing more than an offer to try to arrange the lease financing on the stated terms and conditions. There are no performance guarantees, and the underwriter is generally not liable to the prospective lessee if it cannot perform.

Illustrative Language- ‘Best Efforts” Commitment: ABC Leasing Company proposes to use its best efforts to arrange an equipment lease according to the terms and conditions set forth in this proposal.

A firm underwriting bid is simply just that. The underwriter states that it can deliver the financing under the proposed terms and conditions.

Illustrative Language-Firm Commitment: ABC Leasing Company proposes to arrange on a firm commitment basis an equipment lease for XYZ Inc., according to the terms and conditions set forth in this proposal.

From the prospective lessee’s viewpoint, whether to go with a best efforts or firm offer is like the choice among bidders--a tradeoff between delivery time and price. Underwriters will often offer a better price on a best efforts bid because that way they do not have to market the transaction to potential lessors until it has been awarded to them. Marketing an awarded deal saves the underwriter time, and also may make the potential lessors more willing to offer a better price--they will know the transaction is theirs if they accept the underwriter’s bid, and so are more willing to invest time evaluating the transaction than if the transaction has not been awarded.

The best efforts offer, however, has a downside to the lessee--time. If the underwriter cannot, after having been awarded the deal, rapidly find a lessor, valuable documentation time is lost. In fact, if the underwriter takes an extended period to market the deal, the possibility becomes greater that no lessor will accept the deal. Reason: Prospective lessor-investors become suspicious when a transaction has been around the market place for a while and may refuse to consider it for that reason alone.

Recommendation: If a prospective lessee has adequate lead time, a best efforts underwriting should be permitted. If the winning underwriter cannot perform quickly, the prospective lessee can move on to the underwriter in second place without creating a timing problem.

As described previously, even an accepted firm offer will not usually be a binding agreement because of the various conditions--such as satisfactory documentation of the proposal letter terms. However, as a practical matter, some firm offers may be more likely to go ahead to a completed transaction than others. For example, there are situations when an underwriter will firmly commit to do the transaction, even though it does not have a commitment from any lessor prospects, and is agreeing to buy and lease the equipment itself if it cannot broker it. This type of arrangement can be risky for a prospective lessee because if the underwriter cannot sell the deal, it may not want to go ahead itself, and may seek an excuse to justify a way out. For example, offers conditioned on mutually satisfactory lease documentation can provide an underwriter with an opportunity to create a document “disagreement” and, thereby, a basis to refuse to go forward.

Recommendation: A prospective lessee should carefully investigate the financial situation of a lease underwriter offering a firm underwriting bid. If the underwriter does not have the financial resources to stand behind the transaction in the event it cannot deliver a lessor-investor, the fact that the offer is firm may be worth nothing.

If the offer is made directly by a prospective lessor instead of an underwriter, the situation will be different. Because the prospective lessor will use its own money to fund the transaction, the chances of the lessor looking for an excuse to back out are greatly reduced.

Illustrative Language-Direct Commitment: ABC Leasing Company, as lessor, offers to purchase and lease to XYZ Inc. the equipment described below under the stated terms and conditions.

3.​Specifying the Exact Cost

The proposal letter should identify total equipment cost. Frequently, a prospective lessor will put a limit on, or “cap,” the amount of money it is willing to commit to a transaction. For example, it may agree to buy and lease an oil tanker at a cost not to exceed $40 million. Without a cap, it runs the risk that unexpected cost escalations will cause it to invest more than it is comfortable with. An unanticipated cost increase thus may give a prospective lessor who no longer finds the transaction desirable an excuse to back out.

Recommendation: A prospective lessee entering into a lease agreement covering equipment to be delivered in the future must make sure the lessor’s cost commitment is adequate. For example, will it cover any allowable manufacturer price escalations? If there is a problem with determining an exact price, a dollar cushion can be built into the estimate. A word of caution, however, if a fee has been imposed by the prospective lessor for the failure to use all the committed funds (commonly referred to as a nonutilization fee). A prospective lessee should be careful not to build in an excessive cushion because any fee paid on the excess over the amount used will increase the effective cost of the financing.

4.​Identify the Real Lessee

While the proposal letter will identify the lessee responsible for the rent, sometimes the real lessee is not identified. For example, the proposal letter may name XYZ Inc. as lessee while XYZ Inc. plans to have a subsidiary be the lessee. The lessor will do a credit review and approval based on XYZ Inc.’s statements. If the subsidiary is the lessee, the check on the parent will not be sufficient, and there may not be enough time to make any necessary adjustments. Getting the parent company’s guarantee may be enough, but it may be difficult to obtain at the last minute.

5.​Rent Payments-Rental Adjustment Clauses

The proposal should specify how often, how much, and for how long rent will be paid. For example, a five-year lease may provide for 20 consecutive level quarterly payments, in arrears, each payment to equal 3.000% of the equipment cost, beginning as of the start of the primary term.

When a leveraged lease is involved, the rent calculation becomes more complicated. The amount of rent a lessor charges is, in part, determined by the debt interest rate. However, the lessor generally will not secure the debt until after the award. Reason: It wouldn’t be practical to spend the time and money necessary until there is a deal. Thus, to calculate the rent, the lessor will use an assumed debt interest rate and calculate the rent accordingly. Then, to protect its return in case the actual interest rate varies from the assumed rate, the lessor will often want a rental adjustment clause.

Illustrative Example-The Need for a Rent Adjustment Clause: Company B proposes to lease to Company A a $10,000 item of mining equipment. The transaction will be leveraged with 80% debt at an assumed interest rate of 6% per annum. The terms are as follows:

Lease term10 years
Loan term10 years
Annual rent$1,200
Annual debt service (level, in arrears)
($8,000@6%)$1,087

The annual rent will cover the annual debt service by $113 ($1,200-$1,087). Assume that when Company B goes into the debt market the best available annual interest rate is 10%. The annual debt service, assuming level payments, will be approximately $1,302. In this case not only will the increased debt service expense erode the lessor’s return, but the lessor will have to invest an additional $102 a year ($1,302-$1,200) to make up for the shortfall.

The rental adjustment clause enables the lessor to be protected against an increased interest rate, and this provision should be stated in the proposal letter.

Illustrative Language-Proposal Rent Adjustment: Lessee shall make 20 consecutive, level, quarterly payments, in arrears, each equal to 3.000% of equipment cost, commencing on January 1, 20-. The rental percentage factor is based on the assumption that the interest rate on the leveraged debt will be 9.5% per annum. If the interest rate is other than 9.5%, the rental factor will be adjusted, upward or downward, accordingly so that Lessor’s economic return shall be maintained.

Recommendations:

•​If a prospective lessor has the right to protect its return by adjustments upward if the actual debt interest rate is higher than assumed, a prospective lessee should require a downward rent adjustment if the debt comes in lower than assumed.

•​A prospective lessee should determine what criteria the prospective lessor will use to make any rent adjustment so the accuracy of the calculation can be independently confirmed.

•​Any time a rental adjustment is permitted, the parties should also provide for appropriate adjustments in values that relate to the rent, such as casualty and termination values.

6.​Primary and Interim Lease Terms

The proposal letter must specify the equipment’s lease term and, if more than one item of equipment is to be leased, identify each item’s lease period.

Also, where numerous items of equipment are involved, using an interim term in addition to the main or primary lease will simplify rental payment mechanics. The interim term covers the period from the time the equipment is accepted for lease to the start of the primary term. The interim term concept is commonly used when many items of equipment are involved and deliveries are scattered over many months. By consolidating the start of the primary lease terms to, for example, calendar quarters, the rent payment and processing mechanics are simplified.

Illustrative Example-The Interim Technique for Rent Consolidation: Company B wants to lease 120 trucks from Company A. The trucks will be delivered over a 12-month period at a rate of 10 trucks a month. Company B wants to pay the lease rent in quarterly, in arrears, payments. Company A proposes this solution:

1.​There shall be four primary lease terms starting as follows:

a.​First primary term - April 1, 20-

b.​Second primary term-July 1, 20--

c.​Third primary term - October 1, 20-

d.​Fourth primary term - January 1, 20-

2.​All trucks delivered and accepted for lease in the calendar quarter preceding the nearest primary term start date shall be on interim lease until the start date, at which time the primary term shall begin for such trucks.

Without the interim arrangement, Company A could end up with as many as 120 different primary lease term start dates and, thus, 120 different rental payment dates.

7.​Credit Support for Lease Obligations

The prospective lessor should evaluate the prospective lessee’s financial strength, and if the prospective lessee is not financially strong enough to support a particular leasing financing, the prospective lessor should require, in the proposal letter, some form of credit support. In that event, prospective lessors prefer to get a full and unconditional guarantee of all the lease obligations from a creditworthy entity, such as a parent company, a bank, or, possibly, an underwriter. Other acceptable forms of credit support include a manufacturer’s deficiency guarantee or a “take or pay contract assignment. Different forms may be acceptable in different situations. An experienced leasing company or underwriter should be able to offer some viable alternatives to meet the needs of a particular transaction.

Recommendation: If the proposed lessee is a corporate subsidiary and credit support is required, the parent company should pursue a structure that will have the least impact on its future borrowing capabilities. For example, an assignment of a “take or pay” contract between the subsidiary and an outside entity may have little impact on the parent company. However, a full, unconditional guarantee could have a substantial impact.

8.​Structure of Owning Entity

In structuring a typical underwritten leveraged lease transaction, an underwriter may propose one of a number of different alternative entities to own the equipment--a trust, partnership, or corporation. The underwriter’s choice of entity should be decided in the proposal stage.

Concern for tax issues and limited liability issues will be of greatest concern to a prospective lessor. This is particularly true when two or more are brought together to act as the lessor. On the tax side, the chosen structure should permit a direct flow-through of all the available tax benefits. As to limited liability, the lessors may want protection against direct liability on a specific transaction in the event of a lawsuit.

Recommendation: Trust arrangements can be a useful equipment ownership structure for prospective lessor-investors. If set up properly, it is generally agreed that they will be treated, for tax purposes, as a partnership and, for liability purposes, as a corporation.

The ownership vehicle form can also be important to a prospective lessee. For example, if the equipment ownership is not centralized in a multiple lessor-investor situation, the lessee may have to deal individually with each investor throughout the lease. The lessee may then have to issue separate prorated rent checks and, if a lease variance is necessary, obtain separate consents: A substantial inconvenience.

Recommendation: In a multiple lessor-investor situation, a prospective lessee should insist that there be a single representative with the authority to handle the day-to-day issues.

9.​The Debt Arrangement

If the lessor proposes a leveraged lease, the debt arrangement mechanics and terms should be outlined in the proposal letter. Points to consider concerning the debt are:

•​Who will find the debt?

•​The debt repayment schedule.

•​The anticipated per annum interest charge.

•​The anticipated principal amount as a percentage of equipment cost.

•​The form of lender representative.

•​Whether the debt will be recourse or nonrecourse to the lessor.

While the proposal should cover these points, the lessor may need the ability to make changes, if the debt structure eventually obtained varies from that stated in the proposal.

Illustrative Language-Debt Structure: ABC Leasing Company (ABC), or an investment banker acceptable to the lessee and to ABC, shall arrange for the private placement of a note (“Indebtedness”) to be issued by the lessor for a principal amount of approximately 80% of the total cost of the equipment to certain institutional investors (Lenders). The Lenders may be represented by an indenture trustee or agent bank.

This proposal assumes that the Indebtedness shall be amortized in 20 payments of principal and interest at 9.5% per annum, payable quarterly, in arrears, over five years. The Indebtedness shall be secured by a lease assignment and a security interest in the equipment, but otherwise shall be without recourse to the lessor. Any variance from the debt assumptions, other than interest rate which is provided for in the rent adjustment clause, will relieve the offeror from its commitment thereunder, if so elected.

The proposal letter should address which party will handle the debt placement and pay the placement fees. Typically, the underwriter or lessor will pay those costs. If the lessor or underwriter places the debt itself, it will save the debt placement fee and, thereby, increase its profit. Keep in mind that where the underwriter or lessor handles the debt placement, and there is a rent adjustment provision, it may have little incentive to make sure a truly rock-bottom rate has been found.

Recommendations:

•​Where the prospective underwriter or lessor is arranging the debt, the lessee should require the right to exclude any potential lender, for a number of reasons. First, it should be able to protect itself against a lessor obtaining an unreasonably high interest rate and passing it along through the rental adjustment clause. Second, a lessee may not want any of its “line” banks to become involved because of potential future borrowing restrictions. Also, some lenders are difficult to deal with, and they should be brought in only as a last resort.

•​If a prospective lessor or underwriter must pay the debt placement fee, it should have an equal say in the selection of the party that will place the debt. This will prevent it from being stuck with an inappropriately high placement fee.

Documentation Suggestion: Many documents used in a leveraged transaction will be subject to lender approval. Some lenders can be difficult to negotiate with and slow in responding. To avoid last-minute problems, the relevant papers should be sent to them as soon as possible and monitored carefully as to their review progress.

10. Tax or Business Reasons May Require a Narrow Equipment Delivery Time Frame

In some instances, the equipment’s delivery date may significantly affect the economic benefits to the lessor. Most lessors will be taking depreciation deductions on the equipment, and when the equipment is placed in service determines the first year deduction. Different dates can substantially affect the lessor’s deduction. For example, a lessor may want the deduction in a current year because it has substantial income to offset. Or it may want it in its next tax year because it cannot use the benefits in the current year. Or it may want it before or after its last quarter to avoid the mid-quarter depreciation convention treatment. (See Chapter 5)

Business concerns can similarly dictate a narrow delivery time. For example, the lessor may not want to be obligated to provide lease financing at a particular fixed economic return beyond a certain date. Also, the prospective lessor may need to anticipate its cash needs for funding equipment purchases. Late deliveries can particularly be a problem when a long term lease commitment involves many equipment items and the likelihood of delays is increased.

A solution to that problem is to use a commitment period. This limits the lessor’s obligation to fund to a designated period, six months for example, after the last expected delivery date. From a lessee’s viewpoint, however, this may have a cost. The longer the commitment period, the more likely it is that a prospective lessor will impose a fee for holding the funds available. Such a fee, commonly referred to as a commitment fee, is usually based upon a percentage of equipment cost. For example, a lessor may charge a fee equal to 0.5% of the total funds committed.

Observation: Lessors are often willing to hold funds available for up to six months without charging a commitment fee.

Recommendation: A commitment fee should be included in a prospective lessee’s cost-to-lease computation. A transaction with a lower rent and a commitment fee may be less attractive than one with a higher rent and no fee. This is not, however, always the case. Therefore, a prospective lessee should not automatically exclude a proposal just because it involves a commitment fee.

11. Equipment Location

The proposal letter should specify where the lessee intends to use the leased equipment. The lessor may want to make security interest filings to protect its ownership interest against a lessee’s creditors. To do so, it must know the equipment’s location. Also, the lessor’s potential tax benefits may depend on the equipment’s location. For example, if the equipment is used outside the United States, the lessor will generally have less attractive depreciation deductions.

Another consideration is that the equipment’s location may have psychological benefits that affect a lease underwriter’s marketing effort. Certain lessor-investors or lenders may be more willing to participate in situations involving equipment used in their local area. For example, if the equipment is to be used in Maryland by a division of a California corporation, Maryland regional banks may be interested because of the possibility of doing future business with a company they normally may not be involved with.

12. Purchase or Renewal Options

To have the option to continue to use the equipment, a lessee may want the right to buy the equipment, or renew the lease, under certain conditions, at the primary lease term’s end. To do that, the lessee must have purchase or renewal options.

Illustrative Language-Purchase and Renewal Options: At the end of the primary lease term, the lessee may (with 180 days written notice prior to the end of such term):

1.​Renew the lease with respect to the equipment for an amount equal to its then fair market rental value, or

2.​Purchase the equipment for a price equal to its then fair market value.

Recommendation: From a lessee’s viewpoint a purchase option should be exercisable not only at the end of the main lease term, but also at the end of each renewal term. Also, the renewal term rights should adequately cover potential periods of extended use.

An alternative is a “right of first refusal” option. Basically, a first refusal option gives the lessee the right to buy or renew the equipment under the same terms as offered to the lessor by an unrelated third party.

Illustrative Language-Right of First Refusal: At the end of the primary lease term, the lessee will have a right of first refusal as to any sale or re-lease of the equipment.

Observation: A right of first refusal can create a potential problem for a lessee. It is conceivable that a competitor would bid for equipment essential to a lessee’s operations merely to attempt to interfere with its business.

In some situations prospective lessors want the right to require a lessee to buy the equipment at the lease’s end. This type of right is commonly referred to as a “put” and should, as with the other options, be identified in the proposal. However, because of potential tax problems, puts are not generally used.

13. Early Termination Right

A prospective lessee may want what is called an early termination option--the right to end the lease prematurely as to any equipment that becomes obsolete or surplus to its needs. Some lessors do not like to grant termination options because they typically cut off future earnings. Thus, when granted, the lessee usually must pay a substantial premium to exercise the option, a premium referred to as a termination value payment.

Illustrative Language-Termination Right At the expiration of each year during the primary lease term, the lessee shall have the right, at its option, to terminate the lease. The lessee will be required to give the lessor 90 days prior written notice of its intention to terminate and, during the period from giving notice until the termination date, the lessee shall use its best efforts to obtain bids from unaffiliated third parties for the equipment’s purchase. On the termination date, the lessor shall sell the equipment for cash for the highest bid received. The total proceeds of such sale shall be retained by the lessor, and the lessee will pay to the lessor the difference, if any, by which the sale proceeds are less than the appropriate termination value indicated on the attached schedule.

Recommendation: If a prospective lessor is willing to grant a termination right, the prospective lessee should make sure that the termination values along with the right are incorporated into the lease proposal. These values are not standard and can vary significantly depending on the competition and the lessors. Too many times, the values are not seen until after the award, and sometimes only a few days before the anticipated lease document closing. If they turn out to be excessive, it may be too late to go elsewhere for the financing.

14. Upgrade Financing Right

There may be situations in which a prospective lessee will want the ability to have a lessor finance additions or changes, commonly referred to as upgrades, to equipment on lease with a lessor during the lease term. If the upgrade has no stand-alone value or utility, such as an internal modification to an existing computer system to enhance its performance, there would be only one lessor the lessee can turn to for the financing--the incumbent lessor. If it is not willing to provide the financing, a lessee would have two alternatives--to pay for the upgrade itself, a cost which it typically cannot recover when it returns the leased equipment, or to forgo the upgrade. To avoid this problem, some prospective lessees negotiate an upgrade financing right--the right to require an incumbent lessor to finance all equipment upgrades to its leased equipment during the lease term at a pre-determined lease financing rate, or a rate which is to be determined by a set of guidelines that will be fair to both parties.

Recommendation: Prospective lessees contemplating equipment upgrades should always require an upgrade financing right. And the right should incorporate a formula for determining the upgrade financing interest rate--to avoid being forced into accepting an arbitrarily high rate offer from the incumbent lessor.

15. Equipment Damage or Loss

The proposal letter should identify the lessee’s basic financial responsibilities in the event of a casualty loss. Typically, to protect its equipment investment, the lessor requires the lessee to pay a defined casualty value. How the casualty value amount will be determined should be set out in the proposal letter.

Recommendation: Lessees required to insure equipment against casualty losses for the lessor’s benefit should make sure any insurance proceeds received by the lessor will be credited against any casualty value due.

16. Tax Assumptions and Indemnification

A prospective tax-oriented lessor generally anticipates receiving certain tax benefits, such as depreciation, as a result of owning the leased equipment, and, at least on middle sized and larger lease deals, incorporates the assumed tax benefits into the rental computation. If the lessor does, those benefits, thus, become critical to the lessor’s transaction economic return. When that is the case, the prospective lessor’s lease proposal should spell out exactly what tax benefits are expected, as well as any responsibility a prospective lessee may have if benefits are lost.

Because of the adverse impact the loss of anticipated tax benefits can have for tax-oriented lessors, prospective lessees are frequently asked to provide indemnifications against any loss of expected tax benefits. Lessees, for their part, will usually agree to some indemnification, but will want to limit the circumstances triggering the indemnity as much as possible. While the precise terms of the indemnification will be negotiated during the documentation, the basic terms should be determined at the proposal stage.

17. Tax Law Changes

Where a lessor is anticipating tax benefits, a change in tax laws can affect the lessor’s economic return. For example, changes in the tax laws affecting the equipment’s depreciation life, the equipment depreciation method, or the federal tax rate on corporate income can have a substantial positive or negative impact.

Observation: Because of the intense ongoing governmental focus on the federal tax laws in the equipment and the corporate tax rate area, lessors and lessees should pay particular attention to the implications of anticipated changes.

One way to handle this risk is to quote the rent subject to an appropriate adjustment to reflect any tax law change affecting the lessor’s expected economic return. The parties may agree, for example, that the rent will be adjusted to maintain the lessor’s net return.

Recommendation: The particular parameter that will serve as a guide for any rent adjustment should be defined precisely to prevent a calculation disagreement. “Net return,” for example, can mean different things to different people. If a lessee does not know how to check the validity of a tax law change adjustment (which is often problematic for a lessee), it may pay more than necessary if the lessor tries to squeeze a little higher return. By the same token, a lessee may incorrectly object to a legitimate adjustment. The key sometimes is to provide for an independent way to have the adjustment verified, such as agreeing to allow an outside, independent accounting firm to verify the adjustment.

18. Tax Rulings

In response to a taxpayer’s request, the IRS will rule on a transaction’s tax consequences by delivering a tax letter ruling. Provided the taxpayer’s request is complete and accurate--the IRS letter (called a private letter ruling) will be dispositive of the tax consequences. (See Chapter 6) Where a leasing transaction is particularly complex, or involves uncertain tax law issues, a lessor may require a private letter ruling on a transaction’s tax consequences before entering into it. Or, if the lease is signed before a ruling in made, a lessor may agree to release a lessee from required indemnifications on issues addressed favorably in a requested ruling. If such a ruling is considered necessary, the prospective lessor must make that a condition of its offer.

Illustrative Language-The Use of a Private Letter Ruling: The lessor plans to obtain a private IRS ruling with respect to the assumptions stated in this proposal letter. The lessee shall agree to indemnify the lessor for the tax assumptions that are the subject of the ruling request. Such indemnity shall remain in effect until a favorable ruling has been obtained on each of these points.

19. Transaction Expenses

The proposal letter should address who will pay what transaction expenses, particularly in deals involving an underwritten leveraged lease. Where the lease is not an underwritten leveraged lease, the primary expense is legal fees, and the party incurring the expense usually pays for it. The matter is more complex in underwritten transactions. These types of transactions can involve many parties--equity participants, lenders, trustees, and an underwriter--and, possibly, a variety of substantial expenses. For example:

•​Fees and disbursements of special counsel for the lenders and their representative.

•​Acceptance and annual fees of the lenders’ representative--usually found in a trust arrangement.

•​Special counsel fees and disbursements for the equity participants and their representative.

•​Acceptance and annual fees of the equity participants’ representative--usually found in a trust arrangement.

•​Fees and disbursements related to the filing for a private letter ruling.

•​Documentation expenses, such as reproduction and printing expenses.

•​Fees related to the placement of the debt.

In practice, the expense allocation is not as great a problem as it may appear. Reason: Very often, the underwriter agrees to pay substantially all the expenses. An underwriter can, however, cap these expenses by agreeing to pay only up to a specified percentage, usually around 0.75 to 1.25% of the equipment cost, and the lessee must, then, pay the excess. Because an underwriter makes its money by charging the lessor-investors a set fee for bringing them the transaction, the more it can limit its expense responsibility, the less it has to worry about fees and expenses eroding its profit. In a competitive market, however, many underwriters are willing, particularly if pushed a little, to assume the entire expense responsibility.

Illustrative Example-The Underwriter Expense Problem: Company A, an underwriter, arranged for Company C and Company D to participate as the equity investors in the leveraged lease financing of one oceangoing tugboat to be leased to Company B. Companies C and D agreed to pay Company A a brokerage fee equal to 2% of the equipment’s cost for bringing in the transaction. As a condition of the transaction award, Company A had to commit to Company B that Company B would not have to pay any expenses, except its own counsel fees. At the closing, the following costs were incurred:

Tugboat cost$6 million
Fees for the lender’s counsel20,000
Counsel fees for Companies C & D50,000
Counsel fees for Company A2,000
Counsel fees for Company B35,000
Miscellaneous expenses21,000

What does Company A’s profit picture look like? Company A’s “gross” fee from the transaction is $120,000 (2% X $6 million). All fees and expenses, excluding Company B’s counsel fees, total $93,000 ($20,000 + $50,000 + $2,000 + $21,000). Therefore, Company A “nets” $27,000 ($120,000 - $93,000). If Company A had a 1% “cap,” its expense responsibility would have been limited to $60,000 (1% X $6 million) and it would have made $60,000 ($120,000 - $60,000) instead of $27,000.

a.​What If the deal Collapses?

The difficult expense question is who must pay what expenses if a proposed underwritten transaction collapses. The lenders and the prospective lessor-investors will refuse to have any responsibility if the transaction does not go through, so that leaves the underwriter and the prospective lessee. Some underwriters attempt to put the responsibility for all expenses incurred in such a situation on the prospective lessee by inserting an appropriate clause in the proposal letter. Typically, the clause provides that the prospective lessee must pay all expenses if the transaction is not consummated for any reason whatsoever. This can be a dangerous position for a prospective lessee, particularly when the underwriter’s poor performance may be the reason the transaction failed.

Recommendation: In a major underwritten lease financing, the expenses can be substantial. For example, it is not unheard of for the legal fees and other expenses in a complicated $10 million leveraged lease financing to run anywhere from $200,000 to $400,000. Thus, underwriters and prospective lessees should each carefully evaluate their potential expense exposure and clearly define the responsibilities in all events.

20. The Lease Type

As described in Chapter 1, there are a variety of different lease types, each imposing different responsibilities for the lessor and lessee. Care must be taken to ensure that the cost responsibilities are fully defined and understood. A typical net finance lease requires the lessee to pay all fixed expenses relating to the equipment during the lease term, such as maintenance, insurance, and certain taxes. Without, for example, a lessee understanding what the equipment related expense obligations will be, the overall costs cannot be properly assessed. And it can be an expensive surprise for a lessee to discover after the equipment is on lease that a substantial sales tax is owed.

E.​Agreement to the Proposal Letter

Following any proposal letter negotiations, a prospective lessee accepts the proposal offer by acknowledging its willingness to proceed on the basis of the terms presented. If the proposal is written it can be accepted by an appropriate officer signing the acceptance directly on the letter or in a separate writing properly referencing the proposal letter. Any acceptance condition should be clearly a part of the acceptance and identified as such. For example, if the acceptance is made by signing in a designated space on a proposal letter, the condition should precede the signature.

Recommendation: If a proposal letter is used, a prospective lessee should “accept” directly on the proposal letter, not in a separate writing, particularly if the acceptance is conditioned. Separate papers can easily be lost or misplaced.

F.​The Prospective Lessee’s Obligations After a Proposal Is Accepted

Because a proposal letter is generally not a contract, it may have no more than a psychological hold on the transaction because of various stated conditions, such as mutually satisfactory documentation, which are usually imposed. Thus, except for any obligation to pick up a collapsed transaction’s expenses, the prospective lessee’s obligations may be minimal or nonexistent at the time of the proposal acceptance. As a result, prospective lessors may be unable to require a prospective lessee to go through with a transaction or recover damages for its failure to proceed.

Recommendation: Inasmuch as a prospective lessee’s obligations to go forward may be nonexistent after the acceptance of the offer, prospective lessors and underwriters must make sure transactions are quickly and efficiently completed.

G.​The Prospective Lessor’s Obligations After a Proposal Is Accepted

Because the lease proposal is conditioned, the offeror’s obligations after the prospective lessee accepts the proposal will probably be limited. For example, if the offer is conditioned on acceptable documentation, a prospective lessor may have no trouble finding “unacceptable” points and walking away from the transaction. Of course, there may be an ethical obligation to go forward, but this will be of little value to a prospective lessee when left standing at the last minute without the essential financing.

Recommendation: If a proposal is conditioned on certain lessor committee approvals, a prospective lessee should request written verification once the approvals have been given. Psychologically, this will bring the prospective lessor further into the transaction.

H.​A Proposal Stage Checklist for the Lessee

The following is a listing if the issues that a prospective lessee must address during the proposal stage. The prospective lessee will want to review the list in preparing its bid letter and then again when reviewing any proposal to make sure the issues are addressed in the proposal letter.

Equipment Description

•​What type will be involved?

•​Who is the manufacturer?

•​What is the model?

•​How many units will be involved?

Equipment Cost

•​What is the total cost involved?

•​What is the cost per item?

•​Is the cost per item fixed?

(1)​If not, what is the probable cost escalation?

Equipment Payment

•​When must the equipment be paid for?

•​Must the entire purchase price be paid at once?

Equipment Delivery

•​What is the anticipated delivery date?

•​How long should the lease commitment run past the last anticipated delivery date?

Equipment Location

•​Where will the equipment be located?

(1)​At the lease inception

(2)​During the lease term

Equipment Lease

•​What type of lease is desired?

(1)​Net finance lease

(2)​Service lease

(3)​Other

Lease Period

•​How long must the lease run?

•​Will an interim lease period be acceptable?

(1)​If so, what is the latest date on which the primary term can begin?

•​How long a renewal period is desired?

•​How will the renewal right be structured? For example, five one-year periods, one five-year period, etc.

Rent Program

•​When should the rent be payable?

(1)​Annually

(2)​Semi-annually

(3)​Quarterly

(4)​Monthly

•​Should the payments be “in advance” or “in arrears.”

•​If there is an interim period, how should the interim rent be structured?

(1)​Based on the primary rent (for example, the daily equivalent of the primary rent)

(2)​Based on the long-term debt interest rate

(3)​Other

•​If there will be a renewal period, how should the renewal rent be structured?

(1)​Fixed

(2)​Fair rental value

Options

•​What type of options are desired?

(1)​Fair market value purchase right

(2)​Fixed price purchase right

(3)​Fair market rental value renewal right

(4)​Fixed price renewal right

(5)​Right of first refusal

(6)​Termination right

(7)​Upgrade right

(8)​Other

•​Is a right of first refusal specifically unacceptable?

Casualty and Termination Values

•​If a termination right is required, will the termination values be a primary factor in the lease decision?

•​Must the termination and casualty values be submitted at the time of the proposal?

Maintenance and Repair

•​Who will have the equipment maintenance and repair obligations?

Tax Indemnifications

•​What tax indemnifications will be acceptable, if any?

Insurance

•​Is the right of self-insurance desired?

Taxes

•​What taxes will be assumed?

(1)​Sales

(2)​Rental

(3)​Other

Transaction Expenses (Usually only a concern in underwritten transactions.)

•​What expenses other than lessee’s legal fees, if any, will be assumed if the transaction is completed?*

(1)​Counsel fees for any lenders and their representative

(2)​Acceptance and annual fees of any lender’s representative (trust arrangement)

(3)​Counsel fees for the lessor-investors and any representative

(4)​Acceptance and annual fees of any lessor-investor’s representative (trust arrangement)

(5)​IRS private ruling letter fees

(6)​Documentation expenses

(7)​Debt placement fee

(8)​Other

•​What expenses, if any, will be assumed if the transaction collapses?

Tax Ruling

•​Is an IRS private letter ruling necessary or desirable?

•​Can a favorable letter ruling be a prerequisite to any of lessor’s obligations?

•​Should a private letter ruling relieve any tax indemnification obligations?

Submission Date

•​What is the latest date on which the proposal can be submitted?

•​On what date will the transaction be awarded?

_________________

Type of Proposals

•​Is an underwritten transaction acceptable? If so:

(1)​Will “best efforts” or “firm” proposals be accepted?

(2)​Is a leveraged or single source transaction preferred?

•​If “best efforts” proposals are acceptable, how long after the award will the underwriter have to firm up the prospective lessor-investors and any lenders?

Prospective Lessors--Underwritten Transaction

•​Are any prospective lessors-investors not to be approached?

I.​A Proposal Stage Checklist for the Lessor

The following checklist will serve as a guide to the prospective lessor in identifying issues, and in preparing and negotiating a proposal letter.

The Offer

•​Will an underwritten or direct lessor proposal be involved?

•​If an underwritten offer is involved,

(1)​Will it be on a “best efforts’’ or “firm’’ basis?

(2)​Must there be more than one equity participant?

(3)​If it can be on a “best efforts” basis, is there any deadline when the equity participants must give their formal commitment?

(4)​Will the transaction be leveraged with third-party debt?

The Lessee

•​Has the lessee been accurately identified?

•​Has the lessee’s financial condition been reviewed?

Credit Support

•​Can the lessee’s financial condition support the entire lease obligation?

•​If the lessee’s “credit” is not sufficient, are there additional credit support alternatives available?

(1)​Parent company guarantee

(2)​Affiliated company guarantee

(3)​Unrelated third-party guarantee

(4)​Deficiency guarantee

(5)​Bank support

(6)​Other

•​If credit support is necessary, has the financial condition of the entity giving the support been reviewed?

The Equipment Description

•​What type will be involved?

•​Who is the manufacturer?

•​What is the model?

•​How many units will be involved?

The Equipment Cost

•​What is the total cost involved—both hard costs and soft costs, such as installations costs?

•​What is the cost per item?

•​Is the cost per item fixed?

(1)​If not, what is the probable cost escalation?

The Equipment Delivery

•​What is the anticipated delivery date?

•​Must the lease commitment run past the anticipated delivery date? If so, for how long?

(1)​Will a fee be charged for the commitment to lease future delivered equipment?

The Equipment Location

•​Where will the equipment be located?

(1)​At the lease inception?

(2)​During the lease term?

The Rent Program

•​What is the primary rent payment program structure?

(1)​Will the rent be payable “in advance” or “in arrears”?

(2)​Will the rent be payable annually, semi-annually, quarterly, monthly, or other?

•​Will interim rent (rent for the period prior to the start of any primary, or main, lease term) be involved? If so,

(1)​Will it be based upon the primary rent, the long-term debt interest rate (if leveraged), or other?

(2)​When will the payments be due, such as on the start date of the primary lease term?

The Term of the Lease

•​How long will the lease run?

(I) Primary lease term

(2)​Renewal period

•​Will an interim lease term be involved? If so,

(1)​When will the interim term lease term start?

(2)​When will the primary lease term start?

The Lessor

•​How will the equipment be owned?

(1)​Directly

(2)​Indirectly through a partnership, trust, or corporation

•​Will the ownership structure satisfy any tax and liability criteria?

(1)​Flow-through of tax benefits

(2)​Corporate-like liability protection

(3)​Other

The Debt--if the Transaction Is Leveraged

•​What is the loan repayment program?

(1)​“In advance” or “in arrears”

(2)​Debt service to be payable annually, semi-annually, quarterly, monthly, or other

•​Who will be responsible for arranging for the placement of the debt?

•​Will the rent be quoted on the basis of an assumed debt principal amount and a per annum interest charge, etc.?

•​If so, will the rent quoted be subject to adjustment if other than assumed?

•​If the rent is subject to a debt assumption adjustment, what adjustment criteria will be used?

(1)​After-tax yield

(2)​Cash flow

(3)​Net return

(4)​Other

•​Who will be responsible for fees related to the debt?

(1)​Placement fee

(2)​Lender’s commitment fee

(3)​Other

Options

•​What special rights will the lessee have?

(1)​Fixed price purchase right

(2)​Fair market value purchase right

(3)​Fixed price renewal right

(4)​Fair market rental value renewal right

(5)​Right of first refusal

(6)​Termination right

(7)​Upgrade right

(8)​Other

•​What special rights will the lessor have?

(1)​Fixed price sale right, often referred to as a “put”

(2)​Fixed price renewal right

(3)​Termination right

(4)​Other

Casualty Loss

•​What financial responsibilities will the lessee have in the event of a casualty loss?

Casualty and Termination Values

•​What amounts are to be used?

Tax Aspects

•​What are the relevant tax assumptions?

•​What tax assumptions, if any, will the lessee have to indemnify the lessor for in the event of loss or inability to claim?

•​If there are lessee tax indemnifications, what events that result in tax benefit unavailability will trigger an indemnification payment?

(1)​Any reason

(2)​Acts or omissions of lessee

(3)​Acts or omissions of lessor

(4)​Change in law

(5)​Other

Tax Ruling

•​Will a tax ruling be involved?

•​If so, will a favorable ruling:

(1)​Relieve the lessee from any tax indemnifications?

(2)​Be a prerequisite to the lessor’s obligation to lease the equipment?

Transaction Expenses

•​Who must pay for the expenses if

(1)​The transaction goes through without problems?

(2)​The transaction collapses before the lease documents are executed?

(3)​The transaction collapses after the lease documents are executed but before the equipment is delivered?

Type of Lease

•​What type of lease will be involved?

(1)​Net finance lease

(2)​Service lease

(3)​Other

Conditions

•​What conditions must be satisfied before the lessor is committed?

(1)​Governmental or regulatory approvals

(2)​Licenses or authorizations

(3)​Favorable opinions of counsel

(4)​Maintenance or achievement of certain financial tests

(5)​Satisfactory audited financial statements

(6)​Acceptable documentation

(7)​Approvals by prospective lessor or equity participants

(8)​Minimum dollar participation by equity and debt participants

(9)​Favorable equipment appraisals justifying equipment residual value

(10)​Other

Form of Proposal

•​Will a written proposal be used? If so,

(1)​How should acceptance be acknowledged?

Submission and Award Dates

•​When is the latest date on which the proposal can be submitted?

•​What is the anticipated transaction award date?

(1)​Is there adequate time to do the deal?

Offer Termination Date

•​How long will the prospective lessee have to accept the offer?

J.​Summary

Critical to getting the best possible lease arrangement for a lessee is understanding what to ask for and how to evaluate what a lessor is offering. This begins by the lessee putting together a clear and effective request for bids letter, one that gives the lessor enough information about a possible upcoming lease transaction. And then making an informed assessment of any offer it receives from a lessor. For a lessor, getting an attractive lease deal, begins by accurately assessing the lessee’s needs and, then, setting out the deal aspects of its lease offer in a clear and comprehensive proposal letter. By doing so, not only will the lessor save time, but it will avoid last minute misunderstandings that can result in costly failed transactions.

c13R

CHAPTER 3

Negotiating the Lease Document

A.​What Is the Lease’s Central Purpose?

Although a lease agreement can involve many complex, highly technical, and sometimes overwhelming concepts, its central purpose is very simple-it’s a contract in which a property owner-the lessor-transfers the right to use the property to another-the lessee-for a period of time. The lessor retains title.

A lease differs from a conditional sale, an outright sale, or a mortgage type of transaction. Under a conditional sale, the property owner sells the property, not merely its use, to the buyer. At the time the agreement is reached, the seller transfers the property to the buyer, but typically retains title until the buyer performs certain conditions, usually the payment of the purchase price in installments. Following satisfaction of the conditions, the seller transfers title to the buyer.

In an outright sale, the property owner unconditionally transfers the property, including title, to the buyer and, at the same time, the buyer pays the seller the full purchase price. In a mortgage situation, a buyer of property borrows from a third-party lender some or all of the money necessary to buy the property. The lender, or mortgagee, as security for the repayment of its loan, requires the borrower, or mortgagor, to give it a security interest in the property. The borrower has possession of, and title to, the property subject to the lender’s right to foreclose on the property in the event of a loan default.

B.​The Common Lease Forms

Leases fall into one of two basic formats--the single transaction lease format and the master lease format. Although both follow the same fundamental structure, the lessor’s format choice is dictated by the type of financing transaction, the relationship the lessor anticipates and its document negotiation strategy. If the lessee has its own lease forms, the format choice is typically dictated by which is more cost-effective for a given relationship or transaction.

1.​The Single Transaction Lease

Lessors, particularly in small transactions and “vendor” programs (where the lessor has a committed relationship to provide financing for customers of an equipment seller), frequently use a “standard” pre-printed single transaction lease. The standard lease form has fill-in blanks for those aspects, such as rent, that typically vary with each transaction. Although this type of lease format can be tailored to meet certain required variations, too many changes squeezed into the document margins, or attached as riders, can result in an unreadable document. Traditionally, pre-printed single transaction leases are used in small ticket to mid-sized (typically under $500,000 in equipment cost) lease financings.

The pre-printed lease-format, whether it’s the lessor’s or the lessee’s, is particularly attractive in small dollar lease transactions because it cuts down on drafting and negotiation, and thus helps keep documentation costs, such as legal fees, to a minimum. That can help both parties because the greater the expenses, the less the profit to a lessor, and the greater the overall cost to the lessee. However, using a lessor’s pre-printed form lease can be risky for a lessee. They’re often one-sided, giving few benefits to the lessee and containing many traps hidden in the fine print. Lessors use pre-printed leases to create the impression that their document is standard in the industry and one that all lessees sign. Unfortunately, that is not true. Pre-printed lease terms and conditions often vary widely among lessors.

A few sophisticated lessees use lessor document strategies, developing and requiring the use of their standard form lease as a condition of a lease award. This approach not only saves documentation costs, but eliminates the potential for falling into lessor document traps.

Recommendation: The parties should always consider the estimated costs involved in documenting a lease in determining the transaction’s economic attractiveness. Documentation expenses can be the same regardless of the dollar amount of equipment involved. A $10,000 legal fee may be reasonable for a $500,000 transaction but it will not be for a $20,000 transaction.

2.​The Master Lease

A lease format set up to permit future delivered equipment to be easily added is commonly referred to as a master lease. It may be in a pre-printed form or specifically prepared for a particular transaction (a custom lease approach). Traditionally master lease formats are used in medium-sized (middle market) and large ticket lease transactions.

A master lease has two parts: The main, or “boiler plate,” portion contains the provisions that will remain the same from transaction to transaction (such as basic representations, warranties, tax obligations, and maintenance responsibilities); and the second part, sometimes called the “schedule,” contains the items that will vary among transactions (such as equipment type, rent, and options). Typically, the schedule will be short-often only one or two pages--while the main portion may be up to 40 to 50 typed pages for a multimillion dollar transaction. The advantage to using a master lease format is that the parties can document future transactions with a minimum amount of time and expense by merely adding a schedule containing the information pertaining to the specific transaction. A reference form of master lease is contained in Part II of this book.

Observations:

•​Strategically, a lessor with a master lease in place with a particular lessee has a competitive advantage over other prospective lessors in any new bidding situation. Because documenting new equipment additions on an existing master lease is simpler than negotiating an entire new lease, companies having master leases frequently go out of their way to let an existing lessor win by, for example, giving the lessor the last opportunity to match a lower offer.

•​Companies that frequently lease large ticket items of equipment have increasingly developed their own master lease format and require that a prospective lessor agree to use it as a condition of a lease award. Where multi-million dollar financings are concerned, this can substantially reduce legal fees and other documentation and negotiation costs.

C.​Subjects to Address in Negotiating the Lease

Before starting and during the lease negotiations, the parties must understand the legal, financial, and practical aspects of a lease. Without that understanding, a party may inadvertently give up on an issue that is important, be too adamant about a point of little consequence, or miss an issue altogether. The following explanation identifies and describes issues that can arise in a major equipment lease, and suggests ways that the parties may resolve them. In preparing for the negotiations, the parties must weigh the relative values to them of different alternative approaches so that they will be able effectively to make necessary tradeoffs.

Reminder: Besides the transaction’s participants, another party must be considered in negotiating a tax-oriented lease-the IRS. While the parties may find that a particular approach is in their business interests, the approach may jeopardize the lease’s status as a true tax lease. The tax lease rules are explained in Chapter 6, and particular issues that may give rise to tax problems are noted below.

The following explanation uses a net finance lease as an example because it is generally the most comprehensive and complex form. Generally, understanding the issues arising in a net finance lease will enable an individual to deal with virtually any kind of equipment lease.

Note: A sample net finance lease form can be found in Part II of this book. The reader is urged to read it in conjunction with the following explanation.

Recommendation: In drafting a lengthy lease document, the parties should compile an index containing all the topic headings and page numbers to enable the participants to the negotiation process to easily locate relevant provisions.

1.​Identify the Parties to the Lease

The lease should begin by clearly stating each party’s full legal name, the jurisdiction in which each is organized, and the mailing address of their principal places of business. This will prevent disputes as to who is intended to be bound by the contract.

Illustrative Language-The Proper Name Designations: This lease made as of the 25th day of February, 20XX, by and between ARROW LEASING CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, having its principal place of business at 200 Curtis Street, New York, New York (hereinafter called “Lessor”) and THE HARRIS CORPORATION, a Missouri corporation, having its principal place of business at 100 Barkley Street, St. Louis, Missouri (hereinafter called “Lessee”).

Recommendation: Sometimes a corporation leases equipment to be used exclusively by one of its divisions. When such a division has been organized as a “profit center,” the corporation frequently wants it to be the named “Lessee.” However, if the division is not a separate legal entity, it cannot be bound by a contract. If the “division” is a corporate subsidiary, however, this problem will not be present because it will have a separate legal existence. A prospective lessor should, therefore, make sure that the lessee entity has been properly identified and is capable of being legally bound in the capacity indicated in the lease.

2.​The Factual Summary

When the lease document is typed specifically for the transaction, and not a pre-printed form, it’s always a good idea for it, at the outset, to summarize the basic facts surrounding the transaction. Writing the summary helps each party focus on the overall transaction. And the summary provides a valuable future reference for individuals not involved at the time the lease was negotiated. For example, the summary might describe the equipment purchase contract the lessee entered into prior to the lease transaction and state that it has been assigned to the lessor as part of the transaction.

Typically, the factual summary is incorporated into what are referred to as “whereas” clauses. The factual summary is often followed by a statement of the consideration for the lease, generally stated as the mutual obligations of the lessor and the lessee under the agreement. This is usually done in a “Now, Therefore” clause following the “Whereas” section. Stating the consideration for the transaction in this manner is not legally necessary, but many lawyers consider it good form to do so.

Illustrative Language-A Factual Summary: Whereas, pursuant to a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), dated January 2, 20XX, between White Aircraft Corporation (the “Manufacturer”), a Delaware corporation, and the Lessee identified above, the Manufacturer has agreed to manufacture and sell to the Lessee, and the Lessee has agreed to purchase from the Manufacturer, one White Model A-14 aircraft, that is to be financed pursuant to this Lease; and

Whereas, the Lessee and the Lessor will enter into an assignment of the Purchase Agreement simultaneously with the execution of this Lease whereby the Lessee assigns to the Lessor all the Lessee’s rights and interests under the Purchase Agreement, except to the extent reserved therein.

Now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual agreements contained in this Lease, the parties hereto agree as follows:

3.​Definitions of the Key Terms

The lease should define the fundamental terms used repeatedly in the lease agreement that have special meaning in one section, preferably at the document’s beginning. For example, terms such as “fair market purchase value,” “fair market rental value,” “manufacturer,” “purchase contract,” stipulated loss value,” and “termination value” will usually have certain meanings in a particular transaction, and the parties must agree on their meaning to prevent future ambiguities. Using such a definition section makes the text clearer, permits the parties to locate definitions more readily, and lessens the risk that an important term will accidentally be left undefined.

Recommendation: If a pre-printed lease does not have such a section incorporated and the definitions are scattered throughout the text, It is may be advisable to include a rider that lists all key terms and the page number and lease section where they are first defined.

4.​Dealing With Future Delivered Equipment

Often the parties will want to enter into the lease well before the equipment’s delivery date. Coming to terms on the lease in advance of the equipment’s delivery can often benefit both parties: the prospective lessee can then be sure that no insurmountable problems will arise before it is too late to find another lessor; and an equally anxious prospective lessor may want to make sure that the lessee does not change its mind.

a.​Putting the Equipment Under the Lease

When a lease transaction is documented before the equipment’s delivery, the parties must prescribe a method for putting the equipment under lease when it arrives. Usually the arrangement is for the lessee to notify the lessor in writing of the equipment’s delivery and its acceptability for lease. The notification is usually in what is referred to as an “acceptance certificate,” a written statement that lists the equipment delivered and states that the lessee accepted it for lease as of a specified date. If the equipment conforms to the agreement, it is automatically put on lease.

When the lease relates to equipment to be delivered in the future, the lessee’s obligation to lease the equipment must be clearly spelled out. For example, the lessee may want the option to accept or reject the equipment when delivered. And the lessor should clearly be aware of the lessee’s obligation. An ambiguous phrase such as “the lessee may accept the equipment when delivered by executing the appropriate acceptance supplement,” can cause problems-the lessor may anticipate that the lessee is bound to accept the equipment, while the lessee may not believe it is bound.

b.​Nonutilization and Commitment Fees

Where the lessee wants the right to reject equipment to be delivered in the future, there are two ways a lessor can have some protection: A nonutilization fee and a commitment fee.

A nonutilization fee compensates a lessor for funds committed to future delivered equipment that remain unused at the end of the commitment period. Usually, the fee is expressed as a percentage of originally estimated equipment cost and is payable in a lump sum at the end of the commitment period. If all or an agreed-on portion of the funds are used, the lessee owes nothing.

Illustrative Example-The Nonutilization Fee: Company Able, a leasing company, has agreed to give Company Baker a lease line of credit for 10 river barges. The barges’ total cost will be $1 million, and they will be delivered over a 12-month period. Company Able, however, has a limited amount of funds available and wants to be sure it will be protected from an opportunity loss if the barges are not delivered or Company Baker decides not to lease them. Therefore, it imposes a 1% nonutilization fee. If only $400,000 worth of barges are delivered during the commitment period, how much of a fee is due?

Company Baker would owe Company Able $6,000: 1% of the funds remaining unused, $600,000. If none of the equipment was put on lease, Company Baker would owe $10,000 (1%X$1 million). If $1 million worth of equipment was leased, Company Baker would not owe anything.

A nonutilization fee arrangement has its risks for a lessee. An unexpectedly high equipment purchase cost (whether from a mistaken estimate or a price escalation) or a delivery delay may give the lessor the right to exclude equipment from the lease. If this happens, a lessee can end up paying a nonutilization fee based on the unused funds remaining at the end of the commitment period. It is not, however, generally considered unreasonable, in cases other than where a lessee could arbitrarily choose not to lease certain agreed-on equipment when it arrives, for the lessee to bear this type of risk.

Recommendation: Confronted with a nonutilization fee arrangement, a prospective lessee can lessen the payment impact resulting from equipment exclusions by negotiating a commitment percentage leeway. For example, the lease can provide for the fee to be payable only to the extent that greater than 10% of the committed funds are not used.

The other approach, a commitment fee, is more commonly used. Under this arrangement, a lessee pays a flat fee at the time the lease is entered based on the total equipment cost involved for the lease funding commitment. Generally, the fee is expressed as a percentage of total cost, commonly ranging from 0.375 to 1%. Because the commitment fee pays a lessor for holding funds available, the lessee can freely elect not to put equipment on lease.

Observation: In a competitive lease market, lessors may find it difficult to make a lessee accept nonutilization and commitment fees because many other lessors may be willing to hold funds available without a fee to win business.

c.​Minimum Grouping Requirements

When a lease involves many less expensive equipment items to be delivered over a long period of time, a lessor can require a minimum equipment acceptance grouping to reduce its administrative handling expenses. For example, a lessee may not be able to accept equipment for lease in aggregate cost groups of less than $100,000.

An equipment grouping requirement can cause serious problems for a lessee. For example, if the dollar minimum was set high, the lessee may have to manipulate deliveries to avoid having to pay for equipment for which it does not yet have lease funding until the specified amount is accumulated.

Recommendation: When confronted with a minimum dollar amount equipment grouping requirement, the prospective lessee should seek a “best efforts” qualification. Under this provision, if, after using its best efforts to assemble the required minimum, it becomes impractical to do so, the lessee will be permitted to have a smaller amount accepted.

5.​The Lease Term

The parties must clearly define the period of permitted use--the term of lease. Generally, there are two basic periods: (1) a main lease term, referred to as the “base lease term,” the “primary lease term,” or the “initial lease term”; and (2) a renewal term. Some transactions also call for an “interim lease term,” beginning when the equipment becomes subject to lease until the start of a predetermined base term. The interim term concept is frequently used when many equipment items will go on lease at various times. For example, the base term may start on January 1, 20XX for all equipment delivered during the prior three-month period. By consolidating the start of the primary lease term to one date after which all equipment will be delivered, administrative work and rent payment mechanics are simplified.

In setting up the renewal term options, from the lessee’s viewpoint, generally the more the alternatives the better. For example, one four-year renewal term is less preferable than four one-year terms because the lessee can compare market prices at more intervals. For the lessor, a longer renewal period will generally be preferable because it will want to have a longer period where its rents are predictable and it does not have to undertake to remarket the equipment.

6.​The Rent Payment Structure

Because when the rent payments are due and how much the lessee must pay are key elements of every lease transaction, the lease must precisely set out in detail those terms. For example, a 10-year lease may call for rent to be payable in 20 consecutive, level, semiannual in arrears payments, each payment to be equal to 2% of the total cost of the equipment.

a.​Payment Mechanism

To avoid problems, the lease should specify: (1) where the rent is payable, such as at the lessor’s place of business; (2) the form of payment, such as in immediately available funds; and (3) when it is to be deemed received by the lessor, such as when deposited in a U.S. mailbox or when the lessor has received immediately available funds. Unless the lease specifies those terms, a lessee runs the risk of a lessor claiming a technical default based on what the lessor deems to be an incorrect or late payment, and a lessor runs the risk of losing interest it could have earned had the rent been paid in a manner that would have permitted an earlier use of the money. For example, a lessor will lose interest if payment is made by regular check that would take time to clear, as opposed to immediately available funds though, for example, an electronic wire funds transfer.

Recommendation: Lessees should establish appropriate internal rent payment procedures to avoid technical defaults through, for example, accidental late payments. If the rent must be sent to a special P.O. box number, all individuals responsible for handling the payments should be separately advised so that the rent does not instead get sent to the lessor’s regular business address.

b.​Fixing the Rental Amount

Besides using fixed dollar amounts, the lease may express the rent in different ways. One way is as a percentage of equipment cost. The parties frequently use this method when equipment is to be delivered after the lease is signed because then the rent does not have to be recalculated if the purchase price varies from that anticipated. For example, if the annual rent is expressed as 2% of equipment cost, changes in cost will not require a lease adjustment. If, on the other hand, the lease sets rent at $2,000 a year based on a $100,000 item of equipment and the price later turns out to be $105,000, a lease amendment is needed to incorporate the proper rent.

When the rent is based on a percentage of equipment cost, the lease should define what expenses may be included, or “capitalized,” in the “cost” term. If a prospective lessor has ample funds available, it may be eager to include more expenses into the rent computation cost base. For example, it may readily pay for sales taxes, freight charges, and installation costs and thereby increase the rent. If, however, its money supply is limited, it will probably want to exclude the extras. Also, when “soft” costs, such as installation costs, are substantial in relation to the raw equipment purchase price, a prospective lessor may not be willing to exceed a certain dollar amount on such costs because to do so would lessen its equipment collateral value protection. For example, if a lessor financed the installation costs, and they ran 25% of the raw equipment cost, the lessor’s equipment collateral position would be diluted. In other words, 25% of the total amount financed would relate to installation charges that would have no re-marketing value.

Recommendation: The equipment related cost items that a prospective lessor is willing to finance can vary with each transaction. A prospective lessee should, therefore, define the ground rules in the proposal letter stage to eliminate potential misunderstandings or misconceptions.

c.​Tax Law Rental Adjustment

When a prospective lessor’s economic return depends in part on anticipated equipment ownership tax benefits, it may want to be able to make rent adjustments if unexpected tax law changes occur that adversely affect its return. For example, the lease can incorporate a provision that would allow the lessor to adjust the rent to maintain its “yield and after-tax cash flow.” Instead of a yield and after-tax cash flow, leases sometimes use a maintenance of earnings or net return standard.

Recommendations:

•​A prospective lessor with the right to make rent adjustments in the event of adverse tax law changes should also have the ability to make appropriate adjustments to values that are based on the rent, such as termination or stipulated loss values. Without being able to adjust these rent-related values, the financial integrity of the transaction may not be maintained in the event, for example, of an early termination or a casualty loss.

•​A prospective lessee should always make sure that the lease clearly defines any lessor rent adjustment criterion. Terms such as yield or earnings, for example, do not have standard meanings and can be subject to many interpretations. The lease must set out the exact formula to be used in making any adjustment to enable an independent verification of any of the lessor’s computations.

•​If a lessor has the right to adjust the rent up in the event of an adverse change in the tax laws to compensate for any loss, a lessee should request the right to have the rent adjusted downward if there is a tax law change that is economically favorable to the lessor.

•​If a specific tax law change looks likely during lease negotiations, it may be advisable to determine in advance what the rents and rent-related values will be should the change occur and incorporate them into the lease agreement. This way everyone knows exactly what to expect before a final commitment is made.

d.​Conditions on Payment

In many equipment leases, particularly finance leases, the lessee’s rent obligation is absolute and unconditional. That is, the lessee must pay the rent in full and on time regardless of any claim the lessee may have against the lessor. Commonly referred to as a “hell or high water” obligation, the provision at first sight shocks many new prospective lessees. The provision, however, is not as troublesome as it seems initially because it does not prevent a lessee from independently bringing a lawsuit against the lessor on any claim.

Recommendation: Although not technically necessary, a prospective lessee may want to insert a statement in a hell or high water provision to the effect that any rights of action it may have for damages caused by the lessor will exist regardless of the hell or high water rent commitment.

A lessor will want a hell or high water provision when it is leveraging its investment by using a nonrecourse loan. With this provision, a lender is likely to lend on a nonrecourse-to-lessor basis because potential claims against the lessor would not affect the rental stream that is being relied on for the loan repayment.

Observations:

•​Using nonrecourse debt as opposed to recourse debt is the most desirable way for a lessor to leverage a lease transaction. For financial reporting purposes, the nonrecourse nature permits a lessor to disregard the loan obligation on its financial books because the lender may look only to the lessee and the collateral for repayment, not to the lessor’s general funds.

•​Sometimes a lessor’s general lending bank requires a lessor to include hell or high water lease provisions in all leases. If so, the obligation is included in the lending agreement and is usually coupled with a right to require an assignment of all the lessor’s rights under each lease, including the right to the rent payments, as an additional form of security for their loans.

7.​The Lessor’s Right to Receive Reports

A lessor, to be able to monitor the transaction, may want the right to receive certain reports from the lessee. The utility of the various possible lessee reports depends on each transaction. It is usually advisable, however, for a prospective lessor to at least require financial reports, accident reports, lease conformity reports, equipment location reports, and third-party claim reports. These will enable it to stay on top of a transaction.

a.​Financial Reports

One of the best methods for a lessor to monitor a lessee’s financial condition during the lease term is to require the lessee periodically to submit financial reports, such as current balance sheets and profit and loss statements. With these, a lessor will be in a good position to spot potential financial problems and take whatever early action may be necessary to protect his investment.

Recommendations:

•​A prospective lessor should require quarterly, as well as annual, balance sheets and profit and loss statements. And each should be certified by an independent public accounting firm.

•​A prospective lessee should insure that the time between the date when the information is gathered and when a financial report is due is adequate for its preparation and submission to avoid a potential default situation.

b.​Accident Reports

A lessor should receive immediate notification of every significant or potentially significant accident involving the leased equipment, whether the damage is to the equipment or to persons or other property. Because it is not uncommon for a lessor to be sued solely on the basis of its ownership interest, lessee accident reports are a must. The reports should be in writing and contain a summary of the incident, including the time, place, and nature of the accident, and the persons and property involved. Reviewing all incidents may be a tedious job, particularly when many items of equipment are on lease, but it can prevent some costly surprises.

Recommendations:

•​When an accident could involve major dollar liability, the lease should require the lessee to notify the lessor by telephone immediately in addition to submitting a written report. A lessor’s early arrival on the scene can produce facts that could otherwise be lost.

•​A prospective lessee should limit accident notification responsibility only to incidents involving serious accidents. Minor accidents can create an unnecessary volume of paperwork. One approach is to set an estimated damage dollar amount below which notification is not required. If there is such a cutoff, the lessor should make the lessee responsible for inaccurate estimates because the lessor may not hear about a major claim until it has received notice of litigation.

c.​Lease Conformity Reports

Lessors sometimes require lessees to submit annually an officer’s certificate stating whether any events of default under the lease have occurred during the reporting year, and whether there were any existing conditions that could eventually result in an event of default. If there are any, an appropriate factual summary must accompany the certificate. From a lessor’s viewpoint, this type of report can be a good early warning technique. Although the reports are somewhat of a burden from a lessee’s viewpoint, they are useful in avoiding inadvertent lease default situations. For example, it’s not unusual, particularly in larger companies, to discover at the end of the lease that the equipment has been misplaced--sometimes too late to locate it before delinquent return penalties are incurred.

d.​Equipment Location Reports

Requiring a lessee to prepare and submit equipment location reports is frequently advisable for a lessor and sometimes necessary. Where practical, a lessor should periodically inspect the leased equipment, particularly when the lessee has an obligation to maintain it. If the location is known, it is easy for the lessor to “drop in” to check up on its condition. Location reports may be essential if a lessor intends to keep any security interest or other collateral protection filings up to date, as a location change sometimes necessitates a new filing.

Recommendation: When the lessor has filed or intends to file security interests, the lease should require the lessee to notify the lessor at least 45 days before a change of equipment location to give the lessor enough time to make any additional filings or amendments to existing filings.

e.​Third-Party Claim Reports

Generally, a lessor has a measure of security because it can take its equipment back if the lessee defaults. However, tax liens or other third-party claims imposed on the equipment, viable or not, can seriously jeopardize this protected position. Thus, the lease should require that the lessee notify the lessor of any events that result, or could result, in such an imposition so that it will have the opportunity to protect its position and equipment.

f.​Other Reports

The lessor should request the right to have the lessee submit reports that may be determined to be necessary in the future because unforeseeable events may require that the lessor receive certain additional information concerning the equipment. However, the lessee should seek to qualify any general reporting obligation so that only reasonable information relevant to the lease transaction can be requested.

8.​Equipment Maintenance and Alterations

a.​Equipment Maintenance

The lease must specify which party has the obligation for maintenance and what will be acceptable maintenance. Many types of leases, such as net finance leases, put the normal maintenance responsibilities on the lessee. Regardless of the arrangement, however, the maintenance issue should be specifically addressed in the lease.

Usually, the lease will describe the maintenance requirements in terms of the condition in which the equipment will have to be maintained. A common provision requires the lessee to keep the equipment in “good working order, ordinary wear and tear excepted.” Unfortunately, such a general requirement may be difficult to apply because it is somewhat vague, and more specific guidelines are difficult to come up with. Two ways to minimize the difficulties:

•​If the lessee will use the equipment in a manner that may cause extra wear and tear, the maintenance provision can exclude ordinary wear and tear resulting from the lessee’s intended use.

•​If the equipment’s manufacturer provides maintenance instructions, the lessee should follow them exactly.

Some types of equipment must be specially maintained. A leased aircraft, for example, must be maintained under standards put out by the Federal Aviation Administration. Failing to meet those standards may mean that the aircraft cannot be flown, or, even worse, could result in lawsuits.

Recommendations:

•​The parties should seek expert advice in specialized maintenance situations. Parties negotiating lease agreements frequently do not fully appreciate the cost effect of a proposed maintenance arrangement and, as a result, fail to protect themselves adequately.

•​A lessee responsible for maintenance should also be required to keep maintenance records and make them available to the lessor. Keeping records helps both parties: the lessor can determine whether the equipment is being properly serviced, and the lessee has greater protection should the lessor raise a claim of inadequate maintenance.

•​If the lease permits the lessor access to the lessee’s maintenance records, the lessee should limit access to normal business hours.

b.​Equipment Alterations

A lessor should have the right to prohibit the lessee from making equipment alterations not related to normal maintenance. An alteration could affect the equipment’s market value and impair its value to the lessor following the end of the lease term. Generally, this is handled by a lease provision requiring the lessee to get the lessor’s prior written consent to a proposed change.

9.​The Lessor’s Ownership Should Be Specifically Protected

There are certain basic possession, use, and operational conditions that may be necessary for a lessor to impose to protect its ownership interest in the leased equipment. This section will be devoted to a description of the most essential considerations.

a.​Filings Must Be Made

In many cases, it will be necessary that filings be made to protect the lessor’s ownership status. The lessor may want to file security interests under a state’s Uniform Commercial Code laws to ensure priority over other creditors--typically referred to as “UCC filings.” Certain types of equipment require special filings. An aircraft lessor, for example, must make certain filings with the Federal Aviation Administration to protect its ownership interest.

Who should be responsible to make the required filings? It’s a matter of negotiation between the parties. If the lessee has that obligation, the lessor must require the lessee to confirm promptly that the designated action was taken. And, the lease should obligate the lessee to pay for any out-of-pocket losses incurred as a result of an improper filing.

b.​An Equipment Marking Requirement

The lease should require the lessee to mark the leased equipment with the lessor’s name and its principal place of business. Marking the equipment has two basic benefits for a lessor: A marking will help fend off a creditor of the lessee trying to claim the equipment for the lessee’s unpaid debts; and it will enable a lessor to identify his equipment more readily during an inspection trip or if a reclaiming action is necessary.

Illustrative Language-Ownership Marking: White Leasing Corporation, Owner-Lessor, San Francisco, California.

c.​Certain Broad Use Prohibitions

The lease should prohibit the lessee from “using, operating, maintaining, or storing the leased equipment carelessly, improperly, in violation of law, or in a manner other than contemplated by the manufacturer.” If, for example, improper handling or storing damages the leased equipment, and the lessor becomes responsible to a third party for damages caused through any of these actions, the lessor may have a basis for making a claim against the lessee.

Recommendations:

•​Because of the scope of some general usage prohibitions, a lessee can easily find itself in technical default for relatively minor violations. A prospective lessee should, therefore, attempt to define the parameters more specifically, such as pinpointing the exact laws with which it must comply.

•​Lessees prohibited from using equipment other than in conformity with the manner contemplated by the manufacturer can unknowingly run into trouble. Frequently, equipment is acquired for a use different from that it was originally built to meet because, for example, nothing else is available. In such a case, a prospective lessee should attempt to get a use exception, a specific authorization to use the equipment as necessary.

10. The Lessor Should Require Certain Key Assurances

The lease should require the lessee to make certain key representations on matters related to a lease transaction. The representations should be given as true on the date of the lease document’s execution and, where relevant, should also be ongoing during the lease period. The lease should provide that the remedy for the lessee’s failure to maintain the representations is that the lessor may declare an event of default and get out of its commitments.

a.​That the Lessee Is Legally in Existence

The prospective lessor must assure itself through an appropriate lessee representation that the prospective lessee is a legal entity authorized to do business where the equipment will be used. A corporate lessee should, for example, be required to represent that it is properly organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation and that it is duly authorized to do business in those states where the equipment will be used. If the lessee is not, the lessor may have a difficult time suing the lessee, should it become necessary to do so. Also, any lack of proper legal standing can result in a seizure of the equipment by state authorities. The lessor’s secured position could be jeopardized.

b.​That the Lessee Has the Transactional Authority to Enter Into the Lease

A lessor must have the lessee represent that it is authorized to enter into the lease transaction and that the persons executing the lease, by name or official title, are fully authorized to sign on the lessee’s behalf. For example, if the lessee is a corporation and it had not been properly empowered by its board of directors to make the lease commitment, a lessor may be unable to enforce the agreement against the corporation.

The lessor’s only recourse may be against the individual executing the lease “on behalf of the corporation.” Because it is unlikely that the signing party, in his individual capacity, would have enough personal wealth to satisfy any substantive claim, the lessor would be in a precarious position.

Observation: Merely because a lessee represents a particular point does not mean it is necessarily true as stated. If, however, a falsehood is deemed an event of default, the lessor would have the ability to reclaim the equipment.

c.​That There Are no Conflicting Agreements

Existing agreements may restrict a prospective lessee’s ability to enter into a lease transaction. A bank credit agreement, for example, could prevent the borrower from taking out additional loans without the lender’s consent. If “loans” are defined to include lease obligations, the failure to secure the lender’s consent would most likely be treated as a loan default. Typically, if there is a loan default, the lender would have the right to demand an immediate repayment of the outstanding money, which, in turn, could adversely affect a lessee’s financial condition. Any lessening of the lessee’s financial strength can jeopardize its ability to meet its lease obligations. The lease should include a provision that by entering into the lease agreement the lessee is not violating any existing credit or other agreements.

d.​All Necessary Regulatory Approvals Have Been Obtained

In some situations, a prospective lessee may be required to secure regulatory approval for certain aspects of a lease transaction. For example, a public utility may be required to clear certain lease commitments with the appropriate utility regulatory authority. If they are not cleared, the lease commitments may be unenforceable. It is essential, therefore, that a lessor get a representation from the lessee that all necessary regulatory approvals have been obtained or, if none are needed, a representation to that effect.

Recommendations:

•​Because of the regulatory complexities existing in certain industries, such as public utilities, it may be wise for a prospective lessor to verify independently that the lessee has complied with all necessary regulatory aspects, rather than relying on the lessee’s representation or its counsel’s opinion. Failure to comply can result in a major problem. Although the lessor can reclaim the equipment if a misrepresentation is deemed an event of default, the expense and time involved in getting the equipment back, combined with the problem of having to dispose of, for example, 100 heavy duty used trucks at a reasonable price, can present serious practical problems. Securing a favorable opinion from independent counsel expert in the area is advisable, but it is not an “ironclad” solution. The safest course of action, if possible, is to get the appropriate regulatory authority to issue a favorable written opinion on the relevant issues.

•​Regulatory approval processes frequently take time. To avoid major delays, a prospective lessee should start the process as soon as possible so that, if necessary, it will be in a position to deliver the necessary assurances at the lease closing, such as supplying certified copies of any approvals obtained.

e.​That There Are no Adverse Proceedings

A lessor must require the lessee to represent that there are not pending or legal or administrative proceedings that could adversely affect the lessee’s operations or financial condition. If there are such proceedings, the lessee should indicate what they are, and the lease (or another document) should expressly describe them. For example, it is not inconceivable for an impending lawsuit to be potentially serious enough to bankrupt a company. If it comes to a lessor’s attention after the lease is signed, a no adverse proceeding representation would allow a lessor to terminate the transaction.

Recommendations:

•​It is sometimes impossible for a prospective lessee to be aware of all threatened lawsuits or similar proceedings, particularly those involving minor incidents. Thus, the proceeding representation should be qualified to the effect that there are no proceedings that would have a material adverse impact on the lessee’s operations or financial condition of which it is aware.

•​A no adverse proceeding representation, from a lessor’s viewpoint should be broad enough to cover not only the lessee, but also its subsidiaries and affiliated companies, because a proceeding against a related company could jeopardize the lessee’s financial condition.

f.​That the Lessee’s Financial Statements Are Accurate

Because the lessee’s financial condition is a critical consideration in a lessor’s credit analysis, the lessee should represent that all financial statements delivered to the lessor, including those prepared by the lessee’s outside accountants, accurately represent its financial condition. Such a representation should be requested whether or not the statements have been certified by the lessee’s independent accountants. If, for example, a mistake were made, the lessor could reassess its willingness continue with the transaction when it is discovered.

11. The Lessee Should Require Certain Key Assurances

The lessee should also require that the lessor make certain representations-a point often overlooked by prospective lessees.

a.​That the Lessor Has the Transactional Authority to Lease the Equipment

Even though a prospective lessor presents itself to the public as being in the leasing business, there may be restrictions, such as in a credit agreement, prohibiting the lessor from entering into particular types of transactions. Also, a prospective lessor may have to go through prescribed internal procedures before a lease is in fact an authorized transaction. Violating any restrictions or procedures could jeopardize the lessee’s right to continue using the equipment. Of course, an appropriate representation from a lessor will not guarantee there will be no use interference, but it will provide the lessee with another ground on which to base a claim in the event of a problem.

In underwritten transactions, the lessor-investors, “equity participants,” are frequently not in the leasing business per se. Many corporations, for example, invest in leases on an irregular basis as equity participants, and if the lessor corporation has not obtained all the appropriate internal approvals for the transaction, a lessee may have some enforceability problems. In such a case, if a lessor backs out, a lessee may try to sue for performance on the basis that the lessor should be held to the contract based on its apparent authority to enter into the lease. If a lessor-investor is involved who is not regularly in the leasing market, this possible ground may be unavailable. Thus, it is important in underwritten transactions for a lessee to secure a representation that the transaction has been duly authorized by the lessor-investor.

b.​That the Equipment Will be Paid for

The Lease must include a statement by the lessor, particularly when the lease is executed in advance of equipment deliveries, that the lessor will pay for and lease the equipment to the lessee. While a firm commitment will not guarantee that funds will be available, it will assist in a legal action for damages in the event the lessor does not follow through. The lessor, in turn, will want the commitment to be subject to the lessee fulfilling certain obligations, such as equipment inspection and acceptance. As long as those conditions are within the lessee’s capability, they should not be of concern.

Recommendations:

•​A lessor payment commitment representation is particularly important when a prospective lessee is dealing with smaller, less well financed leasing companies. It cannot, however, be relied on exclusively if the dollar amount of the equipment involved is significant, or last minute funding problems could cause a budgeting disruption. Thus, the reputation and financial background of a prospective lessor should be investigated to insure that funding risk is at a minimum. A cheaper rental rate from a lessor known leasing company, or equity participant in the case of an underwritten transaction, will quickly lose its appeal if the funds are not available when needed.

•​The lessor should represent that the equipment will be, and will remain, free of all liens and encumbrances, except those of which the lessee is aware, such as the debt in a leveraged lease. That representation will help assure that there will not be any interference with the lessee’s equipment use from the lessor’s third-party creditors.

c.​That There Will Be no Interference With the Equipment’s Use

A lessee’s right to the quiet enjoyment and peaceful possession of the equipment during the lease period is fundamental, provided, of course, the lessee is not in default under the lease. A prospective lessee should require a representation to that effect.

Recommendation: A prospective lessor should limit its representation of quiet enjoyment to its own actions, as opposed to guaranteeing that the lessee will be entitled to quite enjoyment in all events. If the representative is not so qualified, a lessor can be liable for damages if an unrelated third party, not claiming directly or indirectly through the lessor, interferes with the lessee’s use of the equipment.

12. The Lessor Should Disclaim Certain Product Responsibility

If the lessor is not the equipment vendor, it will not typically be responsible to the lessee for anything that goes wrong with the equipment. However, to be on the safe side, a lessor should make an appropriate product warranty disclaimer to prevent any possible exposure to a lessee for defects in the equipment’s design, suitability, operation, fitness for use, or merchantability. The lessee should be able to accept such a disclaimer because it can rely on the usual manufacturer’s, subcontractor’s, or supplier’s product warranties.

13. It Is Advisable for the Lessee to Get an Assignment of Product Warranties

Where equipment is supplied by a manufacturer, subcontractor, or supplier, the lessee may be responsible for defects during or at the end of the lease term even though they were caused by the manufacturer, subcontractor, or supplier. To prevent that, a prospective lessee should obtain an assignment of any rights that the prospective lessor would have as equipment owner against any manufacturer, subcontractor, or supplier during the lease term. If these rights are not assignable because, for example, of a warranty restriction, a lessee should have the power to obligate the lessor to sue on its behalf if it deems it necessary.

Recommendations:

•​If a prospective lessee finds it necessary to have the right to require the prospective lessor to sue in the name of the lessor because, for example, the product warranty rights cannot be assigned, that right should be coupled with the right to control the action, including the selection of counsel and the grounds of the lawsuit.

•​If a prospective lessor agrees to allow the prospective lessee to be able to require it to sue on its behalf, it should also specify the extent of the lessee’s obligation to pay the legal expenses. Generally, these will be the lessee’s responsibility.

14. The Party With the Risk of Loss Should Be Specified

Generally, the lessee will bear the risk of equipment loss, whether due to damage, theft, requisition, or confiscation, because the lessee possesses the equipment. Net finance leases, for example, frequently require the lessee to guarantee that the lessor will receive a minimum amount of money, usually referred to as the “stipulated loss value” or “casualty value,” if there is an equipment loss. The stipulated loss value, which decreases as the lease term runs, is calculated so that the lessor will not have to report a loss on its books. That obligation basically puts the lessee in the position of being the equipment’s ultimate insurer.

Recommendations:

•​Where the lease imposes a stipulated loss obligation, a prospective lessee should:

○​Request an offset for any insurance proceeds or other awards resulting from the loss, and

○​Make sure its obligations, including rent, under the lease as to the affected equipment, terminate as of the loss date.

•​When a stipulated loss provision is incorporated, a prospective lessee should insist on a clear definition of the term “loss”, because it can be susceptible of various interpretations. Generally, unless a defined loss has occurred, the rent must continue with the possible result that the lessee would be paying on unusable equipment. Typically, “loss” means destruction to the extent the equipment is no longer usable to the lessee. It is also worth noting that loss for the use intended may be somewhat less than actual total destruction. Thus, a prospective lessee should be careful in agreeing to the ground rules.

•​If a prospective lessee must repair equipment damaged by a third party at its own expense, it should insist on the right to claim any money received, at least up to the cost incurred, from the party causing the damage.

15. Responsibility for Certain General Taxes

In a typical net financial lease, the lessee is responsible for paying taxes-imposed by any local, state, or federal taxing authority. A prospective lessee should take into account any tax payment obligations when determining its effective leasing cost. Note: Some taxes can be significant.

Recommendations:

•​Frequently, lease agreements require a lessee to pay equipment related taxes that, by law, the lessor must pay. If a lessor is improperly assessed by a taxing authority and refuses to institute a proceeding to correct the problem, the lessee may have to pay an incorrect assessment. Thus, a prospective lessee should require a right to be able to have any tax assessment contested or reviewed.

•​Where the lessee wants to contest a tax imposed on the lessor, the lessor should require that the lessee deliver an opinion from its counsel setting out that there is a legitimate basis for the action and should require the lessee to put up a reasonable amount of money in advance to cover the expenses.

•​The lease should require each party to notify the other party timely of potential or actual imposition of any taxes or similar assessments on the equipment. This will allow the interested party to participate at the earliest possible time.

16. Protecting the Lessor’s Tax Benefits

Generally, the parties to a lease will want the transaction to be classified as a “true” lease for federal income tax purposes (see Chapter 6). It is absolutely essential, therefore, that the parties draft the lease to insure that the desired tax treatment will not be endangered.

If a “lease” does not qualify as a true tax lease, the lessor would undoubtedly lose ownership tax benefits, such as depreciation. Because such a loss can turn a favorable transaction into a highly unfavorable one, sophisticated tax lessors try to build protections into the lease documentation in two basic ways-prohibiting inconsistent actions and filings and requiring tax indemnifications.

a.​Inconsistent Actions and Filings Should Be Prohibited

The lease should prohibit the lessee from taking any action or filing any documents, including income tax returns, that would be inconsistent with the true lease intent. Normally, this does not present a problem for lessees because by doing so they could lose their right to deduct the rent charges as an expense-often the reason the transaction was structured as a lease.

b.​Tax Indemnifications-A Way to Protect a Lessor’s Economics

The second way that lessors can attempt to protect themselves against tax benefit losses is through tax indemnification provisions. Typically, these provisions require the lessee to pay the lessor an amount of money that, after taxes, will put it in the same economic position as before the loss.

Tax indemnification provisions can be extremely complex and, to assess properly their effect and workability, one must understand how the ownership tax benefits can be lost. Basically, there are three ways: through acts or omissions of the lessor; through acts of omissions of the lessee; or through a change in law. For obvious reasons, lessors would like to put the economic burden of a loss or inability to claim all of the expected tax benefits on the lessees, regardless of the cause. Lessees, however, object to assuming the entire burden, and, as a result, a compromise is usually reached.

It is fairly standard in true leases to include a tax indemnity based on the lessee’s acts or omissions. An indemnity based on the lessor’s acts or omissions is rare and a lessee should agree to such an indemnity only if the transaction provides significant other benefits. The third situation giving rise to potential tax problems, a change in law, can go either way, usually depending on the overall bargaining position of the parties.

c.​Tax Law Changes

How significant is assuming the risk of tax benefit losses resulting from changes in tax law? To begin with, it should be recognized that the “risk” breaks down into a retroactive risk and a prospective risk. That is, changes that affect equipment already delivered and those that affect equipment to be delivered in the future.

Observation: A prospective lessee sometimes successfully shifts the burden of a retroactive change in tax laws to a prospective lessor by arguing that it is a “normal” leasing business risk that a lessor should assume. There is some logic to this position.

What about prospective changes in tax law, those affecting equipment that a lessor has made a commitment to lease, but that has not yet been delivered? In this case, the risk does not really have to be assumed by either party. For example, the lessor could be given the right to adjust the rent upward an appropriate amount if there is adverse change in the tax benefits before the equipment arrives or have the right to exclude affected equipment. The lessee, in turn, could exclude the equipment if the adjusted rent is too high. Alert prospective lessees usually make sure when a rent adjustment right is given that the lessor will have to make a downward adjustment if there is an increase in the available tax benefits.

Recommendations:

•​Before a prospective lessor agrees to adjust the rents downward, if there is an increase in tax benefits affecting future delivered equipment, it should carefully determine whether it can use the increased tax benefits. If not, a downward rent adjustment will merely erode its economic return.

•​As explained in the above section, if the parties agree to provide for a rent adjustment and couple it with a mutual exclusionary right if the adjustment is unfavorable, certain disadvantages must be considered. A lessor can lose alternate investment opportunities if a lessee excludes equipment at the last minute, and a lessee may not have enough time to find substitute lease financing if the lessor exercises its rights.

•​If a prospective lessor excludes equipment based on a tax law change, it is possible that a nonutilization fee may be triggered. Thus, a prospective lessee should ensure that any nonutilization fee excludes the cost of equipment not leased as a result of a lessor’s change-in-law exclusion right. If this is not provided for, a lessee will have to pay a fee on funds that remain unused as a result of the lessor’s exclusion election.

d.​Tax Loss Payment Formula

When the lease includes a tax indemnification provision, the provision must set out a precise formula for determining the amount the lessee must pay. Because the indemnity formula’s purpose is to make the indemnified party “whole,” the formulas are typically broad in scope and provide for a payment that, after deduction of all fees, taxes, and other changes payable as a result of the indemnification payment, will put the indemnified party in the same economic position as before the loss.

Frequently, this will be expressed as paying the lessor enough money to maintain the lessor’s “net return.” Unfortunately, that term can have many meanings, for example, total earnings, discounted rate of return, or after-tax cash flow. Thus, the lease should define such terms and provide a precise formula determining the amount of the loss.

The formula can become complicated, particularly if the lessor or equity participant is a large multinational corporation, because the payment may affect other aspects of the corporation’s tax picture. As a result, where there are significant sums involved, it is usually necessary to retain experienced tax lawyers to work out the formulas.

In terms of the payment timing, there are two basic alternatives: A lump sum or a rent readjustment. Lessors often prefer the lump-sum payment so they can recoup their entire loss as quickly as possible.

e.​The Tax Loss Date

The lease must identify the time when the lessee becomes obligated to pay the indemnity. For example, would the lessee become responsible to pay for a tax benefit loss when the lessor discovers the problem or when a court rules on it? In many situations the “loss date” is defined as the time when the tax benefit loss has been established by the final judgment of a court or administrative agency having jurisdiction over the matter.

Recommendations:

•​A prospective lessee should not agree to any provision that obligates it to make any tax indemnification payment until the lessor has actually incurred, or is about to incur, an out-of-pocket-expense.

•​A lessor should have the right under a tax indemnification clause to make justifiable tax adjustments without prompting from the IRS and call on the lessee to pay if it realizes that it may not properly claim a tax benefit. However, it may not always be clear what a justifiable adjustment is, and without some means of making that interpretation, the lessee could be required to pay an indemnity solely at the lessor’s discretion. To avoid that problem, the indemnity provision should provide that the lessor will claim a benefit only after receiving the opinion of a jointly chosen lawyer, or under some other similar arrangement where each party will have some control.

•​The lessee should have the right to require a lessor to contest any tax claim that will trigger an indemnification payment. Without it, a lessor could decide not to defend against a claim because he will not ultimately have to pay it.

f.​Reimbursement for Erroneous Tax Loss Payments

The right to be reimbursed for any money incorrectly paid under a tax indemnification provision is an important concept to include within this arrangement. If the tax loss is determined not to exist, the indemnified party should be required to return any money paid promptly.

Recommendation: When a lessee has the right to force a lessor to contest a tax claim, it should also have a right to the return of any amount that it has had to pay before a final resolution, if the lessor later, without justification or consent, settles or discontinues the action. The purpose, of course, is to make sure the claim will be fully contested.

17. Equipment Return

The condition in which and the place where the leased equipment must be returned to the lessor are important considerations. Overlooking either can result in a costly omission for the lessor or the lessee.

When the equipment is returned, a dispute can arise concerning whether the equipment’s condition meets the standards required in the lease. If a lessor determines that the lessee did not properly maintain the equipment, it can insist that the lessee pay for any repairs necessary to restore the equipment. And even if the lessor’s claim for repairs is legitimate, a lessee may believe that the maintenance standards in the lease were met and dispute payment. Thus, the lease should provide a means to determine whether the lessee has met the standard of care criteria defined in the lease.

The best approach is to set an objective, easy-to-measure “outside” standard, for example, agreeing that an aircraft under lease will be returned with no less than 50% of remaining engine operation time before the next major overhaul. Where an easily measurable objective criterion is not available, the parties might agree to use an independent equipment appraiser to assess the equipment’s condition. The lease can either identify the equipment appraiser or set out a method to select appraisers if their services become necessary. A selection method can call for each party to pick an appraiser at the appropriate time, and, if the two selected appraisers cannot reach an agreement, the parties will then jointly select a third independent appraiser whose opinion will be final and binding.

The lease should specify where the equipment is to be returned and who will bear the delivery expense. If, at the lease’s end, a lessor, for example, unexpectedly had to pay for the transportation of 200 trucks from 10 of a lessee’s plants scattered up and down the East Coast to a central sale point in the Midwest, its profit margin could be noticeably affected. Although who pays for shipping expenses varies with each transaction, it is not unusual for a lessee to pay only for shipping charges to a general transportation shipping point near where the equipment is used.

Recommendations:

•​Prospective lessors without access to inexpensive equipment storage facilities should consider negotiating the right to store equipment on the prospective lessee’s premises at the end of a lease until a buyer or new lessee can be found.

•​Prospective lessees should be cautious about giving a lessor the right to store equipment on their company premises at the end of a lease until a buyer or new lessee can be found, unless they can do so without, or with minimal, cost. If you, as a prospective lessee, must agree to do so, put a time limit on how long it may be so stored, and make sure you have no responsibility for insurance or loss while in storage. And you may want to consider charging the lessor a storage rent.

•​Prospective lessees must carefully consider the potential expense exposure in agreeing to return equipment to a particular return point, particularly when many items are involved. For example, a trucking pickup location may be much closer and, therefore less expensive, than the nearest railhead. Having the right to choose between alternative return locations may also be advisable. Circumstances can change, and it may turn out to be more practical to transport the equipment to, for example, the nearest railhead instead of the nearest truck pickup point.

18. Events of Default

If a problem arises that would jeopardize a lessor’s rights or interest in the lease or the equipment, the lessor should be in a position to end the lease, and take other action as may be appropriate, such as reclaiming the equipment. The various “problem” situations that could give rise to this type of lessor right should be clearly specified in every lease agreement. Those situations are generally referred to as “events of default.”

a.​Where There Is a Nonpayment of Rent

The lessee’s failure to pay the rent, when and in the amount due, should always be an event of default. Rent payment is a fundamental obligation, and a lessor should expect the fullest attention to it, perhaps allowing for a reasonable overdue payment grace period for unavoidable delays.

Recommendations:

•​Prospective lessees should seek both a reasonable overdue rent payment grace period, and a lessor notice requirement. For example, the lease could provide that the failure to pay rent will not result in an event of default until a period of time, say five days, after the lessee has received written notice from the lessor of the nonpayment.

•​If a lessor agrees to an overdue rent notice provision as described in the above Recommendation, it should make sure the proper controls are instituted to monitor the timeliness of the rent payments.

b.​When There Is an Unauthorized Transfer

The lease should provide that if the lessee assigns or transfers the lease agreement or the equipment without the lessor’s consent, there will be an event of default. Reason: The lessor enters into a lease transaction to a great extent relying on the quality and reputation of the lessee, so if assignments or transfers were freely permitted, the equipment could end up in the hands of an unacceptable third party. A sublease, for example, to someone who intended to use the equipment in a high wear operation could seriously jeopardize the equipment’s anticipated residual value. By controlling transfers and assignments, a lessor can protect its investment position.

c.​When There Is a Failure to Perform an Obligation

It is in the lessor’s interest to have an expansive definition of event of default, so it may seek to be able to declare a lease default if the lessee fails to observe or perform any condition or agreement in the lease. Whether or not a court would allow a lessor to actually terminate a lease agreement, no matter how minor the failure, may be open to discussion; however, the potential threat may keep a lessee in full compliance. Lawsuits are expensive even for the winner.

Recommendations:

•​Many conditions and agreements in a lease may not be fundamental to the essence of the lease transaction, such as the correct marking of the equipment. Therefore, a prospective lessee should attempt to minimize the default risk by requiring that the breach be “material” before it gives rise to a default event.

•​A good way for a lessee to avoid inadvertent lease defaults is to have the lessor obligated to give at least 30 days’ prior written notice before a default can be declared. Lengthy notice requirements, however, could hinder a lessor’s ability to move quickly to protect its equipment and should be carefully considered before being given.

d.​When the Lessee Has Made a Material Misrepresentation

As explained above, a lessor will often require the lessee to represent certain facts that a lessor deems critical to its decision to enter into the lease. Any misrepresentation of a material nature could subject a lessor to a risk that would not otherwise have assumed had it known the actual facts. In many cases a lessor will rely on the lessee’s representation that there have been no adverse changes in the lessee’s financial condition between the date of the latest financial statements and the transaction’s closing date. If a lessor discovers the representation was not true after the lease is signed, it should be entitled to declare a default even if the misrepresentation was inadvertent.

e.​When the Lessee Is Going Bankrupt

The following should also constitute events of default: a court order or decree declaring the lessee bankrupt or insolvent; the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, or trustee in bankruptcy for a lessee under any state or federal law; any similar action that would expose the leased equipment to a third-party claim or otherwise endanger the lessor’s position; or any voluntary act by the lessee that would lead to any of these events. The bankruptcy rules, however, control and negatively impact the lessor’s ability to act to reclaim its equipment in a bankruptcy situation. (See Chapter 14)

19. Lessor’s Remedies Following an Event of Default

The lease should set out what remedies a lessor can pursue if a lessee defaults under a lease. Although doing so will not necessarily guarantee a lessor that a particular action will be permitted if the parties end up in court, it will put a lessee on notice, and thus may weight against any lessee objection.

Lease agreements incorporate many types of default remedies, usually representing nothing more than a common sense approach to dealing with the default issue. The various remedies listed in a lease sometimes overlap, but from a lessor’s viewpoint it is better to be somewhat redundant than to risk a claim that a certain course of action was waived by implication because it was omitted.

a.​Court Action

The most obvious default remedy that should be included is a right to bring a court action to require the lessee to perform any breached obligation or to get money damages for the failure to do so. This is the standard type of remedy available in a basic contract action.

b.​Termination of the Lease

The lessor’s right to terminate a lessee’s rights under the lease, including its right to use the equipment, is a basic default remedy. As a part of this right, a lessor usually has the ability to enter the lessee’s premises immediately and take possession of the equipment. The reclaiming right is particularly useful when a lessee’s creditors are trying to attach assets as security for their claims.

c.​Redelivery of the Equipment

Lessors commonly have the right to require a lessee to redeliver the equipment in an event of default. It usually imposes a greater burden than if the lease normally ran its course. For example, the lessee may have to redeliver the equipment at its own expense and risk to any location that the lessor designates rather than to the nearest general transportation pickup point. In an adversary proceeding, the expanded right may not have much more meaning than helping to measure damages because a great deal of cooperation cannot be expected from the lessee.

d.​Storage of the Equipment

In a default situation, the lessor may not have a place to store the equipment readily. Thus, the lessor may want to obligate the lessee to store the equipment on its premises, free of charge, until the lessor can dispose of it following a default. Whether or not it is actually advisable to let a lessee retain control over the equipment is a separate issue that would have to be considered by the lessor when a default occurs. For example, a lessor may run the risk that other creditors would seize the equipment. Even though the creditors did not have a valid claim, the possible renting time lost and equipment deterioration could endanger the lessor’s investment.

Recommendations:

•​To avoid a prolonged storage obligation, a prospective lessee should place a time limit on any lessor storage right. If a time cannot be negotiated, the lessor at least should be committed to proceed to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of the property diligently.

•​Any lessor right to have the lessee store the equipment should be accompanied by a right to enter the storage area for any reasonable purpose, including inspection by a prospective buyer or new lessee.

•​When the lessee stores the equipment, there is the issue as to the responsibility for damage to the equipment. A prospective lessee, therefore, should specify that the risk of damage through third party acts during any forced storage period is on the lessor.

e.​Sale of the Equipment

A prospective lessor should insist that, after a lessee defaults, it can sell or otherwise dispose of the leased equipment, free and clear of any of the lessee’s rights. However, the lessee should seek the right to have an offset of any proceeds received against any damages it otherwise owes.

Recommendations:

•​The more a lessor receives from an equipment disposition, the less default damages a lessee may owe if it has a right to an offset. To insure that the lessor undertakes the maximum disposal effort, a lessee should insist on an accounting of the disposition proceeds.

•​If a prospective lessor agrees to credit any sale or re-leasing proceeds received from third parties against any amounts that a defaulting lessee would owe, it should limit the credit obligation to the “net” proceeds actually received. The expenses that the lessor incurs, for example, to lease the equipment should be deducted from the amount that the lessee would be entitled to receive as a credit. Also, until the money is in fact in the lessor’s hands, it should not have to recognize any credit.

f.​Right to Hold or Re-Lease the Equipment

Besides being able to dispose of the equipment, a prospective lessor would want the right to “hold, use, operate, lease to others, or keep idle” any equipment that it has re-acquired as a result of a lease default. Ideally, then, a lessor could take what action it deems to be in the best interest. Of course, if a court finds that the lessor did not act in a manner to minimize the damages suffered, it may limit any recovery that a lessor may be able to get.

g.​Liquidated Damages

A “liquidated damage” provision should always be included as an alternate default remedy. Under this provision, the parties agree on a method for determining what damages the lessor is entitled to if a default occurs. Generally, courts will uphold a liquidated damage arrangement if it fairly anticipates the losses that may result from the lessee’s nonperformance, and is not a penalty.

Although there are no industry standard formulas used to measure the damages that a lessor would suffer because of a lessee’s default, two types frequently are used. One provides for the lessee to pay an amount equal to the present worth of the aggregate remaining rentals that the lessor would have received, but for the default, reduced by the equipment’s fair market sales value or the present worth of the equipment’s fair market rental value over the original remaining lease term. The other calls for the payment of an amount equal to the equipment’s stipulated loss value (which is typically the lessor’s remaining investment principal and interest) as of the date of default, reduced, possibly, by the equipment’s fair market sales value or the present worth of the equipment’s fair market rental value as of the end of the original remaining lease term. A prescribed per annum discount rate, such as the prime commercial lending rate in effect at the time of termination, is incorporated into the liquidated damage “formula” for present worth computation purposes.

Observation: The discount rate agreed on to compute the present worth of the remaining rental stream can significantly affect what will be owed. Too often parties agree to arbitrary rates without considering the consequences. The higher the rate, the less the offsetting credit and the greater the damage amount payable.

Illustrative Example-Liquidated Damage Formula Computation: Company Able leased a $1 million aircraft to Company Baker for a 10-year term. As part of the agreement, the parties incorporated a liquidated damage formula that they considered to be a fair measure of the damages Company Able would suffer if Company Baker defaulted. The formula provided that Company Able would be entitled to an amount equal to the present worth of any remaining rents that would otherwise have been due but for the default, offset by the present worth of the aircraft’s fair market rental value over the original remaining lease term. The per annum discount rate to be used to compute the present worth was specified as 10%, the current prime lending rate at Company Able’s bank. At the end of the fifth year Company Baker defaulted. For simplicity we will assume that the rents are payable annually, in advance. The facts are:

Unexpired lease term5 years
Annual rent$120,000
Annual fair market rental value$100,000

The present worth of the remaining rents under the lease, calculated using a 10% discount rate is $500,384. The present worth of the aggregate fair market rental value over a five-year period is $416,986. The amount that the lessee owes is $83,398, the difference between the present worth of the unpaid rents and the fair market value rents.

If the parties had agreed on a discount rate of 8% instead of 10%, the lessee would owe $86,242, instead of $83,392. On the other hand, if the discount rate were 12% instead of 10%, the lessee $80,747. As the reader can see, the discount rate should not be treated lightly.

Recommendation: Because the future fair market rental value is an estimate, the actual rentals may be higher or lower, resulting in either an underpayment or overpayment by the lessee. To solve this situation, both parties might consider the possibility of allowing for a future adjustment if the actual amounts vary from the appraisal.

20. A Lessor May Want Certain Lease Assignment Rights

Prospective lessors frequently ask for the right to assign their interest in a lease and the equipment at any time during the term. While a general assignment right sometimes makes prospective lessees uneasy, this should not cause concern if it is properly negotiated. To help protect its rights, a prospective lessee could insist that any assignment not adversely affect its lease rights.

a.​Assignment to a Lender

In many cases, a lessor’s lenders will require as part of their credit arrangement that the lessor incorporate in all leases a provision giving the lenders a right to an assignment of the rights, including title to the equipment, if certain loan restrictions are violated. Generally, the purpose of the assignment provisions is to enable a lender to take over the leases as security if there is a loan default. If an assignment requirement exists in a lessor’s loan agreement, it must be in each lease agreement, and it is not a negotiable point between the lessor and lessee. In certain situations, a lessor may want to have the ability to borrow a portion of the equipment purchase cost from a lender on a nonrecourse basis. To do that, the lessor usually must assign to the lender all the lessor’s lease contract rights, such as the right to receive uninterrupted rentals.

Recommendation: Any time a prospective lessee must agree to allow a lessor to be able to assign any or all of its interest in a lease to its lenders, the lessee should require that any such transfer be subject and subordinate, to the terms of the lease. Thus, if there is an assignment, the lessee’s rights, including the right to use the equipment, will not in any way be jeopardized by the lessor’s assignment of its rights to the bank. The lease should provide that any transfer will not relieve the lessor from any of its obligations under the lease. This will give a prospective lessee the assurance that it will always have what it originally bargained for.

b.​Assignment to an Investor

A lessor will sometimes want the right to “sell” the lease, including title to the equipment, to a third party. Under this arrangement, the third-party buyer would become the equipment owner, would take subject to the terms and conditions of the lease agreement, and would, therefore, become the “lessor.” The original lessor would no longer have any rights or duties under the lease.

A broad assignment right can expose a lessee to certain risks. A lease sold to a financially unstable lessor, for example, may endanger the lessee’s right to the continued use of the equipment because of potential creditor actions against the new lessor. Also, an assignment to a lessor who is difficult to deal with can create problems, for example, where the lease must be modified.

Recommendations:

•​A prospective lessor seeking a lease assignment right should also seek the right to require the lessee to execute any documents necessary to effect the assignment. Without that right, a lessee could, intentionally or unintentionally, block the assignment.

•​A lessee may want some control over a lease assignment. For example, if the lessor assigned the lease to any of the lessee’s banks or lending institutions that assignment could restrict the lessee’s borrowing capability. To prevent that, the lessee could request the right to pass on any potential transferees or, if a prospective lessor is unwilling to grant such a right, it could specifically define the limits of who would be acceptable.

21. A Lessee May Want Certain Equipment Sublease Rights

A lessee with the right to sublease equipment is in the best position to lessen or eliminate the impact of having to pay rent on assets that become unproductive because of changes in use needs during the lease term. If there are no restrictions, such as those that would limit transfers to affiliated companies only, a lessee will have the maximum flexibility.

Recommendations:

•​Prospective lessors consenting to a subleasing right should insist that the lessee remain primarily liable under the lease agreement during the sublet period.

•​Prospective lessees desiring subleasing rights should try to avoid agreeing to any exercise conditions, such as having to obtain the lessor’s prior written consent. Time wasted waiting for a consent could result in lost revenue.

•​From the lessor’s perspective, however, it may not be advisable to give a prospective lessee an unrestricted right to sublease the equipment to any party, even though the original lessee will remain primarily liable under the lease. Having the right to pass judgment on any proposed sublessee will prevent knowing transfers to parties who may misuse the equipment or who are financially unstable. Regardless of the original lessee’s primary responsibility, misuse can diminish the equipment’s value, and a sublessee’s bankruptcy could interfere with the equipment’s return.

22. Lessor’s Options to Renew, Sell, or Terminate

There are a few situations when a prospective lessor will want certain rights that are not usually requested, such as a right to terminate the lease in a non-default situation, a right to force a sale of the equipment to the lessee, a right to force the lessee to renew a lease, or a right to abandon the equipment. These rights can create substantial lease treatment tax problems or be otherwise undesirable from a lessee’s viewpoint. Thus, if proposed, their possible effect should be carefully reviewed.

a.​The Right to Terminate the Lease

It is conceivable, although extremely unlikely, that a prospective lessor would want to be able to terminate a lease for any reason it chooses during its term without the lessee’s consent. For example, if a prospective lessor believes the rental market will rise before the end of the negotiated lease term, it may want to have the ability to go after a better rate.

Recommendation: For obvious reasons, a prospective lessee should not put itself in a position where a lessor could prematurely terminate the lease without the lessee’s prior consent and without reason.

b.​The Right to Force a Sale of the Equipment to the Lessee

In certain situations a prospective lessor will insist on having the right (commonly referred to as a “put”) to force a lessee to buy the equipment under lease at the end of the term. Generally, this right is expressed as a fixed percentage of the original equipment’s cost rather than a defined dollar amount. For example, a lessor may have the right to sell the equipment to the lessee for an amount equal to 10% of cost. In effect, a put eliminates any risk that a lessor will not realize his assumed residual value that, in turn, protects its anticipated profit. Transactions involving certain types of store fixtures or equipment that will be difficult or uneconomical to move, such as certain heavy storage tanks, sometimes incorporate a forced sale right.

Recommendations:

•​The use of a put may impair the tax status of a lease transaction. (See Chapter 6) They should be incorporated only with the advice of tax counsel.

•​If a prospective lessor insists on having a put, the prospective lessee should make sure it will not be required to indemnify the lessor for any loss of tax benefits a lessor can suffer if the put causes the lease not to qualify as a true tax lease.

c.​The Right to Abandon the Equipment

In the past, equipment abandonment rights had been used in leases of equipment that would be difficult and costly, if not totally impractical, to reclaim if the lessee decided not to buy it at the end of the term. A good example of the type of leases that involved abandonment rights were those relating to certain kinds of commercial storage tanks that were so large that the only way to move them was to cut them into pieces and then re-weld them at the new site. In these situations, the expenses involved could be so great that the lessor could not reasonably recoup them through a releasing or a sale.

Lessors sometimes attempt to solve an equipment removal expense problem by requiring the equipment to be delivered to them at the end of the term at the lessee’s expense. If the lessee refuses to do so, however, the lessor’s only recourse, without a right of abandonment, would be to bring a lawsuit to force the lessee to live up to its agreement or, possibly, pay for any resulting damages. If the lessee is in financial trouble, a lawsuit may be of little use. Having an abandonment right allows the lessor to drop the property in the lessee’s lap and rid itself of any lingering responsibility or expense exposure.

Recommendation: The lessor’s right to abandon the equipment is prohibited under the IRS Guidelines and can create serious tax lease treatment problems (See Chapter 6). It should be used only on the advice of tax counsel.

d.​The Right to Require a Lease Renewal

In situations where an abandonment right or a put might be considered, a lessor may instead use a forced lease renewal right. Under this right, a lessor could make the lessee re-lease the equipment at a predetermined rental.

Recommendation: The right of a lessor to require a lessee to renew a lease could also run afoul of the IRS Guidelines and can create serious tax lease treatment problems. It should be used only on the advice of tax counsel.

23. Lessee Options to Buy, Renew, Terminate, or Upgrade the Equipment

Invariably, a prospective lessee will ask for certain rights, referred to as “options,” that will enable it to maintain some form of control over the equipment’s use, such as an equipment purchase right, a lease renewal right, or a lease termination right. Generally, these types of options are willingly granted by prospective lessors.

a.​The Right to Buy the Equipment at Fair Market Value

A prospective lessee typically wants to be able to buy the leased equipment at the lease’s end. In many situations, this is done through a fair market value purchase option. Basically, the option gives the lessee the right to buy the equipment for whatever its fair market value is at the time it is exercised.

Although the term “fair market value” appears self-explanatory, the parties should agree on a method for its determination. Generally, the “fair market value” of a piece of equipment is the amount that a willing buyer under no compulsion to purchase would pay a willing seller under no compulsion to sell in the open market. As a practical matter, however, how is the value actually determined between a lessor and a lessee? Typically, it is done through an equipment appraisal. The parties can designate in the lease an independent appraiser who will evaluate the equipment at the appropriate time.

Alternatively, the parties can each select an independent appraiser to come in and make an assessment when necessary. If the two appraisers cannot agree on a satisfactory value, then they must jointly select a third appraiser, whose opinion will be binding.

Recommendation: A fair market value purchase option can be an expensive way for a lessee to acquire equipment with a typically strong resale value. A purchase price “cap” is sometimes negotiated to limit how much the lessee would have to pay. For example, the lessee would have the right to buy the equipment at fair market value or 30% of the equipment’s original cost, whichever is less. However, a cap can present tax problems. (See Chapter 6)

b.​The Right to Buy the Equipment at a Fixed Price

When equipment has traditionally maintained a favorable re-sale value, many companies refuse to lease because a fair market purchase option coupled with the lease rents could result in an economically unfavorable way of acquiring it. As a result, a fixed price purchase option is sometimes given to induce them to lease. Under a fixed price purchase option, commonly referred to as a “call,” the lessee can buy the equipment at the end of the lease for a predetermined price. The price is usually expressed as a percentage of the equipment’s original cost. For example, the lessee may have the right to buy designated equipment for 35% of cost. In this way, the lessee knows the maximum amount of money it will have to spend if it wants to buy the equipment when the lease is over.

Observation: A lessee fixed price purchase option can cause a lease to fail to be characterized as a lease for federal income tax purposes. If the exercise price is so low that the lessee may, in effect, have a bargain purchase right, the IRS may be able to challenge successfully its status as a true tax lease. Fixed price purchase options, therefore, should be granted with care, and only with the advice of tax counsel, if it is important that a lease qualify as a true tax lease.

c.​The Right to Renew the Lease at Fair Rental Value

Providing a lessee with the right to renew a lease at the equipment’s fair market rental value at the time of renewal is acceptable, both from the standpoint of the IRS and, generally, a lessor. The parties can determine the fair rental in a manner similar to that of the determination of the fair market purchase value, through independent appraisal at the time of the intended renewal.

Recommendation: When equipment is vital to a prospective lessee’s operations, it should make sure the lease renewal terms are adequate to cover any anticipated needs. For example, if a four-year renewal is desirable, an option that would allow a selection of two two-year periods, four one-year periods, one one-year period followed by a three-year period, or a four-year period would provide a great deal of flexibility as to term and as to rental rate. A structure such as this would give the lessee the ability to limit its renewal costs in a high rental market or to “lock in” for a longer period of time in a low rental market. From a lessor’s viewpoint, of course, too much latitude on the lessee’s side can lessen its chances of maximizing its renewal profits and, therefore, any such arrangement should be carefully thought out as to the possible future effects.

d.​The Right to Renew the Lease at a Fixed Price

Prospective lessees sometimes request a fixed price renewal option. By knowing in advance the exact dollar amount of the renewal rents, they know where they would stand if they wanted to continue to use the equipment beyond the main lease term. This would, of course, not be possible with fair market renewal option.

Observation: A fixed price renewal right may result in adverse tax consequences (See Chapter 6). Thus, the amount of fixed renewal option must be carefully considered.

e.​The Right to Terminate the Lease

It is not uncommon for a prospective lessee to have the ability to terminate a lease early, particularly when it believes the equipment could become technically obsolete or surplus to its needs before the lease would normally end. When this right is granted, the lessee frequently will be required to pay the lessor a predetermined amount of money, commonly referred to as the “termination value,” on exercise. Because most lessors do not like to grant termination rights, the termination amount is usually high.

f.​The Right of First Refusal

A purchase “right of first refusal” is sometimes used as an alternative to a fair market value purchase option. Under this option, a lessee is given the right to buy the leased equipment at the end of the lease term under the same terms and conditions as offered by an unaffiliated third party. The disadvantage to using it is that a lessee may run the risk that a competitor may bid for the equipment either to push the price up or to acquire it for its own operations.

Illustrative Language-Right of First Refusal: Unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the end of the term of this lease, or any event or condition which, upon lapse of time or giving of notice, or both, would constitute such an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at such time, the lessor shall not, at or following the end of the term of this lease, sell any item of equipment (including any sale prior to the end of such term for delivery of such equipment at or following the end of such term) unless:

(1)​the lessor shall have received from a responsible purchaser a bona fide offer in writing to purchase such equipment;

(2)​the lessor shall have given the lessee notice (a) setting forth in detail the identity of such purchaser, the proposed purchase price, the proposed date of purchase, and all other material terms and conditions of such purchase, and (b) offering to sell such equipment to the lessee upon the same terms and conditions as those set forth in such notice; and

(3)​the lessee shall not have notified the lessor, within 20 days following receipt of such notice, of its election to purchase such equipment upon such terms and conditions.

If the lessee shall not have so elected to purchase such equipment, the lessor may at any time sell such equipment to any party at a price and upon other terms and conditions no less favorable to the lessor than those specified in such notice.

g.​The Right to Upgrade Financing

At times, companies lease equipment, such as computer systems, that require upgrading during the lease term to ensure maximum performance, by adding additional equipment or modifying the original equipment. Typically, such an upgrade may not be done without the lessor’s prior’s prior written consent and, in some situations, it may be of such a nature, for example, internal equipment modifications which have no stand-alone value, that the no one other than the original lessor would consider financing it. In these situations the incumbent lessor has absolute negotiating control over the financing, and can charge the lessee more than the going market rate.

Recommendation: Prospective lessees, to avoid having to accept whatever rate an incumbent lessor offers for equipment upgrade financing when no other lessor may be willing to finance an upgrade, should insist on having an option to require equipment upgrade financing on reasonable terms. The upgrade financing right should be at a pre-determined fixed lease rate, or at a rate which is to be determined in accordance with acceptable standards at the time of financing--such as the original lease rate adjusted for changes in the lessor’s debt borrowing rate.

24. A Defaulting Party Should Lose Certain Options

Generally, the lease should provide that the party holding an option forfeits its exercise right, if it is in default under the lease. For example, lessee should lose its right to buy the equipment under a purchase option if the lease is terminated because of default on its part.

25. Designate the Law Governing the Lease

It is always advisable for the parties to specify what jurisdiction’s law will apply to their rights and obligations under a lease agreement. For example, the parties can agree that all actions on lease issues will be decided under the laws of New York State, regardless of whether the proceedings are instituted in a New York court. By doing this, the attorneys are able to draft the documents under the law they believe will give the fairest known outcome.

26. Severability Clause

The lease should include a severability clause, providing that any lease provision determined to be legally unenforceable will be served. Under this clause, the severed provision is treated as though it never existed. This may prevent the entire lease agreement from being held invalid if only certain provisions are unenforceable.

27. The Interest Penalty for Late Payments

A lease agreement should prescribe the interest rate that will be charged on any overdue payments, such as delinquent rent payments. This will eliminate disputes over late charges, and will assist in assessing damages if a lawsuit arises.

Recommendations:

•​When the lease specifies an overdue payment interest penalty, the prospective lessor should also incorporate a qualification that the rate will in no event be higher than the maximum enforceable legal rate to avoid any potential enforceability problems if the legal limit is inadvertently exceeded.

•​Prospective lessors will want interest on overdue obligations to run from the date the money is due to the payment date. Prospective lessees, on the other hand, should attempt to get it to run from the date the lessee receives written notice of the overdue obligation from the lessor.

28. The Lease Should Identify Where and How to Send any Required Notifications and Payments

While leases usually provide that all required notifications and payments, such as loss notifications and rent payments, must be promptly made, they sometimes fail to identify exactly where they should be sent. As a result, payments or notifications could be misdirected and money or valuable time lost. The lease should, therefore, expressly state the appropriate mailing addresses.

In addition to specifying where payments and notifications must be sent, the lease should specify the notification and payment manner. For example, it may be agreed that a notice will be deemed given when it is deposited in a U.S. mail box, sent by prepaid telegraph, or sent by certified mail.

29. The Lease Should Be Correctly Signed

All parties to a lease should make sure it is signed in the proper capacities. Leases to be signed by an individual representing himself generally do not present any problems. Leases to be signed by an individual representing a firm, such as a partnership, corporation, or trust, sometimes do. If, in the latter case, the signature is not made in the correct representative capacity, the represented firm may not be bound. For example, if a vice president intends to sign on behalf of his corporation, the signature block should be set up as follows:

XYZ Corporation

by ____________________________

R. Smith, Vice President

If the signature form is not correct, the signing individual may run the risk that he is personally liable on the contract-certainly, a less-than-desirable outcome for all parties concerned.

D.​A Checklist for Drafting and Negotiating a Lease Agreement

In preparing a well-drafted lease agreement, the parties should cover all the important issues involved in a transaction. The following checklist pinpoints the issues frequently encountered.

What form of lease is appropriate?

(1)​A single transaction lease

(2)​A master lease

Should a master lease be used?

Does the lease agreement cover the following issues?

(1)​Has a page index of all topic headings been included?

(2)​Have the parties been properly identified?

(a)​Lessor

(b)​Lessee

(c)​Is the lessee a valid legal entity?

(d)​Has a factual summary of the circumstances giving rise to the transaction been included?

(e)​Has the consideration for the transaction been stated?

(f)​Have the key terms been defined in a definition section? For example:

1.​Affiliate

2.​Business day

3.​Buyer-furnished equipment

4.​Equipment delivery date

5.​Equipment manufacturer

6.​Event of default

7.​Event of loss

8.​Fair market value

9.​Indenture

10.​Interim rent

11.​Lease

12.​Lease period

13.​Lease supplement

14.​Lessor’s cost

15.​Lien

16.​Loan certificates

17.​Loan participant

18.​Overdue interest rate

19.​Primary rent

20.​Casualty loss value

If equipment will be delivered after the lease is signed, has a procedure for adding it been established?

(1)​Can the lessee decide not to lease future delivered equipment when it arrives? If so, will the lessee be obligated to pay:

(a)​A nonutilization fee?

(b)​A commitment fee?

(2)​Can future delivered equipment be accepted for lease as it arrives or must the lessee aggregate a minimum dollar amount?

The lease period should be defined

(1)​Will there be an interim lease term? If so, when will it begin and end?

(2)​When will the primary term begin?

(3)​How long will the primary term run?

(4)​Will the lessee be permitted to renew the lease? If so, what is the renewal period arrangement?

The rent structure must be defined

(1)​Will a percentage rent factor be used? If so, what may be included in the equipment cost base?

(a)​Sales tax

(b)​Transportation charges

(c)​Installation charges

(d)​Other

(2)​How much rent must be paid?

(3)​When will the rent be due?

(4)​How must the rent be paid?

(a)​Check

(b)​Wire transfer

(c)​Other

(5)​Where must the rent be paid?

(a)​Has a post office box or other address been specified?

(6)​Can or must the lessor adjust the rent charge if there is a tax law change affecting, favorably or unfavorably, the lessor’s economic return?

(a)​If a rent adjustment is provided for, has the exact criterion for making it been clearly specified?

(b)​If the tax law change applies to future delivered equipment and a rent adjustment is not acceptable, can the party adversely affected elect to exclude the equipment?

(7)​Will the rent obligation be a hell or high water obligation?

What is the lessor’s total dollar equipment cost commitment?

(1)​Will a percentage variance be permitted?

Will the lessee be required to submit reports? For example:

(1)​Financial reports

(a)​Profit and loss statements

(b)​Balance sheets

(c)​Other

(2)​Accident reports

(a)​Has a minimum estimated accident dollar amount been agreed upon below which a report is not required?

(b)​Will the lessee be obligated to immediately telephone if an accident occurs?

(3)​Lease conformity reports

(4)​Equipment location reports

(5)​Third-party claim reports

Has a time been established for when lessee reports are due?

Has a general lessee reporting requirement been imposed as to reports that may be deemed necessary by the lessor in the future?

Equipment maintenance

(1)​Who has the responsibility for insuring proper maintenance?

(a)​Lessor

(b)​Lessee

(c)​A third party

(2)​Who must bear the cost of the maintenance?

(a)​Lessor

(b)​Lessee

(3)​Will maintenance records be required?

(a)​Will the lessor be permitted access to the maintenance records? If so, at what times:

1.​Normal business hours

2.​Any time requested

Will equipment alterations be permitted? If so,

(1)​Will the lessor’s consent be required before:

(a)​An addition that may impair the equipment’s originally intended function or that cannot be removed without so impairing such function

(b)​Any change

(2)​Who will have title to any addition or other alteration?

(a)​If it can be easily removed without equipment damage?

(b)​If it cannot be removed without function impairment?

(c)​What rights will the lessor have to buy the alteration?

Will certain lessor ownership protection filings be advisable or necessary?

(1)​Federal regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Aviation Administration

(2)​Uniform Commercial Code

(3)​Other

If lessor ownership protection filings will be made, who has the responsibility for making them and who must bear the expense?

(1)​Lessor

(2)​Lessee

If the lessee must make required filings for the lessor, will the lessee have to confirm they have been made?

Will the equipment be marked with the lessor’s name and address? If so, who will have the marking responsibility and expense?

(1)​Lessor

(2)​Lessee

Has the lessee been specifically prohibited from using, operating, storing, or maintaining the equipment carelessly, improperly, in violating the law, or in a manner not contemplated by the manufacturer?

(1)​If the lessee must use the equipment for a purpose other than intended, an exception should be negotiated

The lessee must be required to provide certain key representations

(1)​That the lessee is properly organized, validly existing, and in good standing

(2)​That it has proper authorization to do business in the state where the equipment will be located

(3)​That the lessee has the transactional authority to enter into the lease

(a)​T hat necessary board of director approvals have been obtained covering the transaction and the person signing the lease on behalf of the lessee

(b)​That any other required approvals have been obtained

(4)​That there are not conflicting agreements

(a)​Bank credit agreements

(b)​Other loan agreements

(c)​Mortgages

(d)​Other leases

(5)​That all necessary regulatory approvals have been obtained

(6)​That there are no pending or threatened adverse legal or administrative proceedings that would affect the lessee’s operations or financial condition

(7)​That there have been no adverse changes as of the lease closing in the lessee’s financial condition since the latest available financial statements

The lessor must be required to provide certain key representations

(1)​That the lessor has the transactional authority to lease the equipment

(a)​That any necessary board of director approval has been obtained

(b)​That any other approvals have been obtained or, if none are required, a Statement that none are required

(2)​That the lessor will pay for the equipment in full

(3)​That the lessor will not interfere with the lessee’s use of the equipment

(a)​Has an exception when the lessee is in default been negotiated by the lessor?

The lessee should require product warranties to be assigned if the lessor has no equipment defect responsibility

(1)​If the warranties are not assignable, the lessor should be required to act on the lessee’s behalf

Who has the responsibility for equipment casualty losses?

(1)​Lessor

(2)​Lessee

Do the casualty loss values give adequate financial protection to the lessor?

Are the casualty loss values competitive from the lessee’s viewpoint?

As of what time will a casualty loss be deemed to have occurred-has a “loss date” been defined?

(1)​What obligations change or come into effect on the loss date?

When is the casualty loss value payable and when does interest on the amount payable begin to run?

What taxes must be paid?

(1)​Sales Tax

(2)​Property taxes

(3)​Rental taxes

(4)​Withholding taxes

(5)​Income taxes

(6)​Other

Who must pay the taxes?

(1)​The lessor

(2)​The lessee

For any taxes that a lessee must reimburse a lessor for payment, does the lessee have the right to have the taxes contested?

(1)​What happens if the lessor does not fully pursue its contest remedies?

Is each party required to immediately notify the other of any tax imposition for which they will be responsible?

Do the parties intend a true tax lease? If so,

(1)​Inconsistent actions and filings should be prohibited

(2)​Will tax loss indemnifications be required?

(3)​Will any tax indemnity cover all lessor tax losses or only those resulting from the lessee’s acts or omissions?

Who has the economic risk of a change in tax law?

(1)​For past delivered equipment

(2)​For future delivered equipment

(a)​Can either party elect not to lease if the economics are no longer favorable?

Has a formula been agreed on for measuring the amount of any tax benefit loss and the amount of any required reimbursement?

(1)​Does the formula make the indemnified party whole?

(2)​Is the formula absolutely clear?

Has the tax loss date been determined?

Who has the expense responsibility for the equipment return and where must it be returned to:

(1)​If the lease ends normally?

(2)​If the lease ends prematurely?

May either party designate an alternate return location? If so, what is the expense responsibility?

The lessor should be able to terminate the lease early or take other protective action in certain situations

(1)​When the rent is not paid

(2)​When the lessee makes an unauthorized transfer of the equipment or any of its rights under the lease

(3)​When there is a general failure to perform the obligations under the lease

(4)​When the lessor discovers the lessee has made a material misrepresentation

(5)​When there is a bankruptcy or similar event that would jeopardize the lessor’s position

The actions that the lessor may take in the event of default must be specified

(1)​Court action

(2)​Terminate the lease

(3)​Cause a redelivery of the equipment

(4)​Cause the lessee to store the equipment

(5)​Sell the equipment under its own terms

(6)​Be able to hold or re-lease the equipment

(7)​Be entitled to a predetermined amount of money as damages for a lease default

Certain lessor assignment rights may be desirable or required

(1)​To a lender as security

(2)​To an investor

Will the lessee be able to sublease the equipment? If so,

(1)​Will the lessee remain primarily liable under the lease during the sublease period?

(2)​Will the lessor have any control over who the sublessee will be?

Have all the lessor’s options been included? For example:

(1)​Right to terminate the lease

(2)​Right to force a sale of the lessee

(3)​Right to abandon the equipment

(4)​Right to force a lease renewal

Have all the lessee’s options been included? For example:

(1)​A purchase right

(a)​Fair market purchase value

(b)​Fixed purchase price

(2)​A renewal right

(a)​Fair market purchase value

(b)​Fixed price rental

(3)​A termination right

(4)​A right of first refusal

(5)​An Upgrade financing right

Will a defaulting party retain any of its option rights under the lease?

Has the law of a jurisdiction been specified to control any issues that arise under the lease?

Is there a severability clause?

Is there any interest penalty for overdue payments?

Has each side specified how and where any required notifications and payments will be made?

(1)​The address where notifications and payments must be sent

(2)​The manner in which the notifications and payments must be made

(a)​U.S. mail

(b)​Other

Has the signature section been set up properly for:

(1)​An individual

(2)​A corporation

(3)​A partnership

(4)​A trust

(5)​Other

Has the signature been made in the proper capacity?

E.​Summary

The lease document sets out the business arrangement that both the lessor and the lessee have agreed to enter into—their rights and duties. It, of course, must be carefully reviewed and written, covering all aspects that may or should come into play in the lease deal. This cannot be done without understanding each aspect of a typically lease contract and what negotiating leeway is fairly and reasonably available.

c1PU

CHAPTER 4

Closing The Lease Financing

A.​Overview

Once you’ve negotiated the terms and conditions of your lease agreement, it’s time to have it put in final form and prepare for what’s referred to as the lease “closing.” At the closing, all parties will sign the lease agreement and, in addition, fulfill any closing conditions identified or requested in accordance with the lease or other governing papers, such as the lessee delivering to the lessor any specified “collateral” documents requested. These collateral, or supplemental, documents range from those that essentially provide comfort on specified issues, such as opinions of counsel, to those that define critical supportive arrangements, such as guarantee agreements. All the collateral documents are an integral part of the finance closing. If the lessee, for example, is unable to provide any, the lessor has no obligation to provide the financing.

The leveraged lease closing is the most complex, because, as explained in Chapter 1, of the added participant--the third-party equipment lender. Even though the actual leveraged lease agreement does not differ radically from that of a non-leveraged lease, additional supplemental closing documents are usually involved, such as a security and loan agreement, to accommodate the loan arrangement requirements.

Although drafting the supplemental papers will be the responsibility of the transaction’s lawyers, the business people should understand the fundamental concepts involved so the papers can be meaningfully reviewed to ensure they accurately reflect the agreements reached. Also, understanding the purpose of the collateral documents will enable the business participants to more readily negotiate compromises when the lawyers reach impasses. And that is the purpose of this chapter--to provide you with a closing document overview so you know in advance what to expect and enable you to facilitate a smooth closing.

One final point before we begin. While this chapter provides a general working knowledge of the typical collateral lease documents, keep in mind that most transactions have their own unique aspects that must also be taken into account.

B.​Legal Opinions

1.​The Function of Legal Opinions

In large ticket and, at times, middle market, lease transactions, legal opinions are typically required by lessors and, in some cases, by sophisticated lessees. Before going into the various opinions possible and what they might address, let’s take a moment to discuss what the practical value of such an opinion may be from a business point of view. To begin with, it’s important to understand what a legal opinion does not do. It does not guarantee that the conclusions expressed in the opinion are correct. Regardless of the quality of the lawyer’s work in preparing the opinion, a court or administrative agency may interpret the law or facts differently--and their decision, not the legal opinion, will be controlling. A legal opinion, however, does provide the recipient with value:

•​It provides the participants with a significant degree of comfort, because the lawyer’s opinion usually will be correct.

•​In drafting the opinion, the lawyer will need access to relevant information and, therefore, writing it may bring to light transaction trouble spots that can be corrected.

•​If a court or agency disagrees with the opinion, having it may help show that the parties exercised due care in entering the transaction and may prevent the imposition of any penalties.

The problem with legal opinions is they are invariably qualified by, for example, stating a very specific set of facts on which they are based. To the extent that the relevant facts aren’t properly conveyed to the lawyer providing the opinion, therefore, the opinion may be of little value.

Recommendations:

•​Although legal opinions often make the recipient feel secure on the issues covered, there are times when more certainty is required. For example, a lessor or lessee concerned about whether a certain lease structure qualifies as a lease for federal income tax purposes is often well advised to consider getting an Internal Revenue Service ruling on the issue.

•​The “expertness” of the lawyer providing an opinion is a critical consideration, particularly when complex legal issues are involved. Therefore, if you need a legal opinion in a lease transaction, choose a lawyer with solid leasing experience.

2.​Opinion From Lessee’s Lawyer

The lessor should ask the lessee to have its attorney deliver a legal opinion on relevant legal issues. The opinion’s goal is to provide the lessor with assurances that no legal issues exist that will undermine the lease transaction. Thus, a lessor will typically want the lessee’s lawyer to opine whether:

•​The lessee has been properly organized, is validly in existence, and is in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

•​The lessee has the authority to enter into the lease.

•​The lessee has the ability to perform all of its lease obligations.

•​All the lessee’s lease commitments are legally binding.

•​Any consents, such as those of the shareholders or lenders, are necessary and, if so, whether they have been obtained.

•​Any regulatory approvals, such as a state public utility commission, are necessary and, if so, whether all the proper action has been taken.

•​There are any adverse pending or threatened court or administrative proceedings against the lessee and, if so, their probable outcome.

•​The lessee would violate any law, rule, or provision of any of its existing agreements by entering into the lease arrangement or complying with any of its terms.

3.​Opinions From Lessor’s Lawyer

a.​To the Lessee

In certain situations, particularly in large ticket underwritten leveraged lease transactions, the lessee should obtain an opinion from the lessor’s lawyer concerning the lessor’s legal ability to enter into and perform its obligations. That opinion should minimally confirm that the lessor is properly:

•​Incorporated or organized, as the case may be, at the time the lease is signed.

•​Qualified to do business in the state where the equipment will be used to avoid, for example, any risk that the equipment could be attached by the state authorities for the nonpayment of any taxes that the lessor may owe.

b.​To the Lender

An equipment lender should always request a written opinion from the lessor’s lawyer on key issues relating to its loan arrangement with the lessor. This type of opinion generally covers the same issues as those covered in the opinion given to the lessee. For example, whether:

•​The lessor is duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing in its state of incorporation.

•​All the necessary transaction authorizations have been secured.

•​The lessor’s obligations under the loan documents are fully enforceable.

Also, if the equipment loan is to be non-recourse to the lessor, permitting the lender to look only to the lease payments and equipment for repayment, the lender will want an opinion stating that the:

•​Lessor has good and marketable title to the equipment covered by the lease.

•​Equipment is free and clear of any liens or encumbrances other than those of which the lender is aware.

•​Lessor has not made any other lease assignments.

•​Lender has a free and unencumbered right to receive all payments, such as rent under the lease agreement.

Recommendation: A prospective lessor should consider requiring an opinion from the prospective lender’s lawyer confirming that all the necessary action in connection with the loan’s authorization has been taken. Many prospective lessors are so grateful to get the loan that they sometimes neglect to determine whether it was properly authorized. A loan without proper authorization may be withdrawn.

4.​Opinion From the Guarantor’s Lawyer

In many situations, a third party will guarantee the lessee’s lease obligations. For example, the parent company of a financially weak corporate lessee may be asked to guarantee the lease obligations as a condition to the lessor’s lease commitment. In that case, the strength and viability of the guarantor’s commitment is critical to the lessor and any non-recourse equipment lender. To help confirm the guarantee’s worth, a lessor should request a favorable opinion from the guarantor’s lawyer on the applicable aspects.

Such an opinion should address legal issues that relate to the guarantor’s ability to fulfill the guarantee. For example, the opinion may be required to state whether:

•​The guarantor is duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing.

•​Anything exists that could adversely affect the guarantee’s quality, such as material litigation.

•​The guarantee has been fully and properly authorized.

•​The guarantee is a legally enforceable obligation.

5.​Opinion From the Vendor’s Lawyer

Usually the leased equipment’s vendor is not asked to provide any legal opinion because it has only to deliver clear title to the equipment. And an adequate bill of sale containing proper seller representations and warranties typically gives the necessary comfort. In certain situations, particularly if a substantial dollar amount of equipment is involved, a prospective lessor might want to ask the equipment vendor for its lawyer to provide a legal opinion confirming that the vendor has, upon equipment payment, delivered clear title to the equipment.

C.​Financial Reports

The financial strength of every party to the lease transaction, such as the lessor, the lessee and any third-part guarantor, is a key factor in a lease financing and, therefore, it’s important that reliable and up-to-date financial information be obtained. The degree of information necessary depends on the transaction’s size--a lease of a $900 office copier will not warrant the same degree of investigation that would be called for in the lease of a multi-million dollar printing press.

1.​Why Financial Information Is Necessary

a.​Of the Lessor

The financial condition of a lessor is an important lessee consideration--a solid lessor contractual commitment to lease is worthless if it doesn’t have funds available when the equipment arrives for lease. All too often a prospective lessee fails to check the lessor’s financial condition, apparently assuming that a lessor always has adequate funds and that, once the deal has been signed, there is nothing to be concerned about. This may not be true. A financially weak lessor may not have purchase funds available when the equipment is ready for lease. And, even if the equipment has been paid for and put on lease--although unlikely--there’s a risk that such a lessor’s creditors may seize the leased equipment as security for an unpaid obligation.

The availability of adequate funds for equipment purchase is of particular concern if a lease line of credit is involved--that is, when the lessor has committed to buy and lease many items of equipment to be delivered over a long period. Any lack of available lessor financing when equipment arrives could be a serious problem for a would-be lessee.

b.​Of the Lessee

Similarly, the lessee’s financial condition is a critical element in the lessor’s decision as to whether to enter into a particular lease financing, particularly if a multi-million dollar, long-term lease is involved. So, at all times, the lessor, particularly at the lease closing and when it must advance funds, will want to be assured that the lessee has the financial capability to meet all of its contractual obligations, including payment of rent, for the full lease term.

c.​Of a Controlling Corporation

If the lessee is owned by another company, very often a lessor will want to review the parent company’s financial statements--even if the parent does not guarantee the lease obligations and regardless of the financial strength of the lessee. The weaker the financial condition of an owning company, the greater the possibility that it will drain the lessee’s cash to solve any of its financial problems.

Recommendation: When there is a risk that a controlling corporation could drain a perspective lessee’s cash, a lessor must take precautions. One such precaution is to impose a restriction on the amount of dividends that the lessee can declare and distribute to the controlling corporation.

d.​Of the Guarantor

If the lessee’s financial condition is inadequate, as a condition to going forward with the financing, the lessor may ask for a transaction guarantee from a financially solid entity, such as a parent company or equipment vendor. In this event, the guarantor’s financial strength is of primary importance and relevant financial information will be included in the closing.

2.​Type of Financial Information Needed

Typically, the financial condition of a company can be adequately assessed in a review of its past and present financial statements, including profit and loss statements and balance sheets. A lessor may also require bank and trade references to further verify the financial integrity of the company being reviewed. And it may check, particularly in the case of smaller companies, with credit reporting services, such as Dunn & Bradstreet or Experian, to see if there is any adverse information on file.

Often, the lessor’s financial review is done prior to its issuing a lease proposal offer, but sometimes, not until shortly after the lease award. In any event, it’s always well in advance of starting the documentation negotiation. As a result, the lessor will typically ask that the financially reviewed entity, particularly if there’s a long time between the review and the lease signing, bring its financial information up to the closing date.

One of the most common ways a participant’s financial picture is brought up to the transaction’s closing date, is to require the reviewed entity’s financial officer to deliver a certificate at the closing presenting relevant financial information since the last published statements. For example, if the most current financial statements reflect a company’s condition as of June 15, 20XX and the transaction does not close until September 25, 20XX, the certificate must essentially provide that as of the closing date, September 25, 20XX, there have been no materially adverse financial changes since the date of the latest financial statements, June 15, 20XX. Of course, it would be more comforting to get the company’s independent accountants to issue the certificate, but this is generally not practical.

Recommendation: It’s always wise for any other party concerned to request updates as of the lease signing from any party whose financial condition may affect the transaction’s viability. So, for example, a lessee might consider requiring a financial update from a lessor whose financial condition it thought it necessary to review before making an award. This may be done through a financial certificate from the lessor’s financial officer.

D.​Corporate Authorization Documents

When a corporation participates in a lease transaction, the other parties generally should require a copy of the corporation’s board of directors’ resolutions authorizing the transaction. The resolutions should be certified by the corporate secretary or assistant secretary and delivered at the closing. The typical lessee corporate resolution, for example, will state that the lessee has been duly authorized to enter into the transaction for the specified dollar amount and that a certain person has been authorized to execute the documents on behalf of the corporation.

Recommendations:

•​While lessors and lenders usually require lessees to deliver appropriate board of directors’ resolutions at a lease closing, lessees rarely ask for authorizing resolutions from the other parties. They, however, should seriously consider doing so, particularly from corporate lessors and lenders not regularly engaged in leasing or lending.

•​If the participant is not a corporation, and, for example, is a limited partnership, your attorney should be consulted about what authorization assurances might be advisable.

•​If, after the lease has been signed, you discover that a key party failed to get the necessary, say, corporate board of directors’ transaction approval, you should immediately request that it deliver appropriate resolutions approving, ratifying, and confirming all actions that have been taken.

•​While board of directors’ resolutions should be reasonably broad in scope, corporate directors must be careful not to grant more than is necessary. For example, if a lease transaction is to involve a large conveyor system, its cost should be specified with leeway for reasonable changes. Without designating the cost, an individual representing the corporation may be able to bind it to a lease even if there were unexpected and significant cost increases.

E.​Guarantees

When a prospective lessee wants to lease more equipment than its credit capability justifies, it will be asked for additional credit support. Very often, the lessor will suggest that a financially strong third party be brought in to guarantee the lessee’s obligations. The guarantee request may vary anywhere from a full guarantee of all the lease obligations to something significantly less.

The most favorable guarantee for a lessor would be a full lessee guarantee, where the guarantor unconditionally obligates itself to ensure the lessee’s full and prompt performance of all the lease obligations, covenants, and conditions. For example, if the lessee fails to pay the rent, the lessor could go directly to the guarantor for payment.

Under a partial guarantee, the guarantor may, for example, only be responsible for the repayment of 15% of the total lease payments. Partial guarantees may be acceptable to a lessor when the proposed transaction is financially attractive.

F.​Proof of Insurance Documents

Frequently, the lease agreement will require that the lessee have personal injury and property damage insurance covering the leased equipment. In these cases, the lessor will want the lessee to confirm that the insurance will be in effect when the equipment is accepted for lease. That confirmation should be required to be delivered at the lease closing and will take the form of a certificate of insurance from the lessee’s insurance company stating that the necessary coverage will be in effect.

Recommendations:

•​A certificate of insurance should be obtained and carefully reviewed well in advance of the lease closing to verify that the coverage outlined is proper and that it will be in effect when necessary. A lessor should pay particular attention to any coverage limitations, such as restricted equipment usage. And a prospective lessee should clear the insurance coverage with a prospective lessor in advance of the closing. Finding out at the closing that the insurance certificate is inadequate will not only be embarrassing, but delay the financing. The best approach is to send a draft certificate to the lessor weeks ahead of the closing for its review and acceptance.

•​A lessor should insist that the required insurance coverage cannot be canceled without prior written notice to it, and only after an adequate grace period, to give it an opportunity to take out insurance if the lessee fails to keep it in force. Insurance companies are willing to make such a commitment when asked

G.​Equipment Purchase Agreements

Unless the equipment has been built, or is already owned, by the lessee, the lessor has to purchase it from a third-party supplier. If the equipment is available at the time the lease is signed, and it’s ready for lease acceptance, the lessor simply buys it at that time. If not, an equipment purchase may have to be entered into, ordering the equipment.

At times vendors, knowing the equipment will be put on lease, ask that the lessor to enter directly into the purchase agreement. For a variety of reasons that is rarely a good idea for the lessor or the lessee. If the lessee, with or without justification, refuses to accept the equipment for lease, the lessor may still be legally obligated to buy the equipment--something it will not want to do if it has no lessee for it. Thus, if a purchase agreement must be executed early, the prospective lessor should insist that the lessee be the signing party.

From a lessee’s viewpoint, it’s always advisable for it to enter into the purchase agreement directly with the equipment vendor and then assign only its right to purchase the equipment to the lessor, subject, of course, to the lessor fulfilling its lease commitment. This is typically done by using a purchase agreement assignment. Under such an assignment, the lessee has direct contract rights with the supplier on warranty or other equipment-related claims and the lessor has what it needs--the right to purchase the equipment directly from the supplier.

Here’s how a purchase agreement and assignment might work. The lessee and the equipment supplier enter into the necessary purchase agreement, and then the lessor and the lessee enter into an assignment of this agreement. Under the assignment, the lessor generally acquires the lessee’s contract purchase right, but not its obligations. The assignment may also provide that the lessor will acquire additional rights, such as service or training, as well as all buyer warranties or indemnities, as of the time the lease ends and the equipment is returned to the lessor. Further, the assignment often states that the lessee shall remain liable on the purchase contract as if the assignment had not been made and requires the supplier’s written consent to the assignment. The supplier is also often asked to specifically acknowledge that the lessor will not be liable for any of the purchase contract duties or obligations.

Recommendations:

•​If a prospective lessor enters into a purchase agreement assignment, it must be careful not to assume any of the buyer’s duties or obligations under the purchase agreement. The assignment should specify that the prospective lessee will remain liable on the purchase contract as if the assignment had not been made.

•​When a prospective lessor enters into an equipment purchase agreement assignment, it should, at the same time, get the supplier’s written consent to the assignment. The consent should acknowledge the assignment and provide that any rights assigned (such as supplier warranties), will accrue to the lessor’s benefit, just as though it had been originally named as the buyer. Also, the supplier should be asked to acknowledge that the prospective lessor will not be liable for any of the purchase contract duties or obligations.

H.​An Equipment Bill of Sale

A prospective lessor generally requires that the equipment seller deliver a bill of sale when it pays for the equipment. Typically, the bill of sale is a warranty bill of sale in which the seller not only transfers equipment title, but also warrants that it has delivered to the purchaser full legal and beneficial ownership to the equipment, free and clear of any encumbrances, mortgages, or security interests. Such a bill of sale, commonly has a seller representation that it has the lawful right and the appropriate authority to sell the equipment.

•​Recommendation: A prospective lessor should insist that the bill of sale, in addition to typical seller representations and warranties, contain a seller representation that it will defend the lessor’s title to the equipment against any person or entity claiming an interest in the equipment.

I.​Waivers From Land Owners or Mortgagees

Very often, the leased equipment will be located on real property leased from a third party or that is subject to a mortgage. In this case, statutory lien rights may exist that, for example, permit a landlord to attach any equipment on its land, including leased equipment, if its rent is not paid. Similarly, the holder of a mortgage on a lessee’s building may, under a general mortgage claim right, be able to go after leased equipment located in the building. In these situations, the prospective lessor should require as a closing document, a waiver from the landlord or mortgagee of any claim to the leased equipment.

J.​Security Interest Filings

Although not technically necessary in a typical equipment lease situations, a lessor will generally want to file appropriate, information-only Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) financing statements to provide added insurance that it in fact has priority over other parties who may claim an interest in the equipment, particularly the lessee’s creditors. If a UCC financing statement was necessary (because, for example, the lease was in fact a conditional sale or other type of loan transaction, secured by the equipment, and, thus, a UCC financing statement was required to secure the “lessor’s” right to the “leased” equipment over the “lessee’s” other creditors) and is not filed (or not correctly filed), the lessor’s claim to the equipment will not be perfected (prior in right) as to the lessee’s other creditors. Simple in form, the statement basically requires nothing more than a description of the parties and the equipment. The UCC financing statement filing will be a condition of the lease closing. The filing procedures are routine, and the expenses are nominal.

K.​Participation Agreements

A participation agreement, a closing document setting out the lease financing’s structural terms and conditions, is frequently used in underwritten lease transactions, particularly leveraged transactions. The parties to such an agreement may include the lessee, the equity participants, the debt participants, and any trust established for the debt or equity participants. The participation agreement states the terms under which the debt participants must make their loans and the equity participants must make their equity investments. It also generally incorporates a method for substituting any defaulting participants, and may include any prescribed tax indemnification provisions.

L.​The Owner’s Trust Agreement

It’s not unusual for a trust to be established for equity participants in a leveraged lease transaction, particularly if more than one equity participant is involved. The trust arrangement, referred to as an owner’s trust, provides the equity participants with corporate-like liability protection and partnership-like income tax treatment and, thus, can be a desirable ownership vehicle.

To set up a trust, the equity participants enter into a trust agreement with an entity, such as a bank that will act as the trustee referred to as the “owner trustee.” The agreement sets out in detail how, and to what extent, the trustee will act on behalf of the equity participants.

As a part of its trust obligations, the trustee will execute all relevant documents, including the lease, any participation agreement, the indenture, and any purchase agreement assignment, on behalf of each equity participant. The right, title, and interest in the equipment, the lease, any purchase agreement, and any purchase agreement assignment is collectively referred to as the trust estate, and legal title to it is held in the owner trustee’s name. The owner trustee is, however, only a figurehead owner, the beneficial interest in the trust estate residing with the equity participants. The equity participant’s interests are represented by certificates, referred to as owner certificates, issued by the owner trustee.

M.​A Lender’s Trust Agreement

If the financing is structured as a leveraged lease, the debt participants will typically act through a trust arrangement which enables them to receive favorable tax treatment and liability protection. The arrangement is typically set up through a trust indenture and mortgage agreement entered into between the equity participants and debt participants. A trust indenture and mortgage agreement defines the basic debt financing parameters and provides for issuing loan certificates that set out the debt repayment obligations. The agreement also grants a security interest to the lenders in the equipment and the lease while the loan is outstanding. As with a participation agreement it will be one of the lease closing documents.

The debt trust structure is similar to the equity trust structure. The debt participants are represented by a trustee, referred to as the “loan trustee” and it stands in the same position to the debt participants as does the owner trustee to the equity participants. As the lender’s “watchdog,” the trustee can take any prescribed action that may be necessary to protect the debt participants’ interests, such as foreclosing on the lease in case of default.

N.​Using a Partnership Instead of a Trust Arrangement

At times, multiple equity or debt participants find it undesirable or impractical to act through a trust arrangement. In that case, they frequently use instead a partnership structure. Here, the “lessor” or “lender,” as the case may be, is the partnership, with the equity or debt participants as partners in the partnership. It’s usually advisable for a formal partnership agreement to be entered into that defines each partner’s rights and obligations. The agreement will be a part of the lease closing.

O.​The Underwriter’s Fee Agreement

In underwritten transactions, the lease underwriter will be responsible for bringing together the equity participants, the lessee, and, if the transaction is leveraged, the debt participants. For its services, the underwriter will be entitled to a fee, typically varying with each transaction and each broker, and typically payable by the equity participants. To protect itself and prevent later misunderstandings as to the payment terms, the underwriter may ask that the equity participants enter into a formal fee agreement clearly defining the fee arrangement, which will also be included as a closing document

P.​A Supplemental Lease Document Closing Checklist

Although the type of additional closing documents required in a lease transaction will vary with each situation, the following checklist can be used as a general guideline.

Legal opinions:

•​Is the lawyer rendering the legal opinion thoroughly experienced in the area to be covered by the opinion? Fox example, if an opinion is required on complex tax issues, is he or she fully knowledgeable on all the relevant aspects?

•​How much has the legal opinion been conditioned? In other words, has the lawyer left so many outs as to his or her position that he or she really has provided little comfort?

•​To the extent that the legal opinion is based on facts supplied to the lawyer, are the facts accurate and complete?

Does the opinion of the lessee’s lawyer, to be delivered to the lessor, address the following issues:

•​Proper organization, valid existence, and good standing of the lessee.

•​The lessee’s full authority to enter into the lease.

•​The lessee’s complete and unrestricted ability to perform all obligations.

•​Whether all the lessee’s lease commitments are legally binding.

•​Whether all necessary consents have been obtained.

•​Whether all necessary regulatory approvals have been obtained.

•​Whether there are any pending or threatened adverse court or administrative proceedings. If so, what the potential impact may be.

•​Whether any law, rule, or collateral agreement will be violated by the lessee entering the lease transaction.

Does the opinion of the lessor’s lawyer, to be delivered to the lessee, address the following issues:

•​Whether the lessor is properly organized, validly existing, and in good standing.

•​Whether the lessor is properly authorized to do business in the jurisdiction where the equipment will be located.

•​Whether the transaction has been fully authorized by the lessor. For example, have all necessary committee and board of director approvals been secured?

•​Whether all the lessor’s commitments are binding.

•​Whether the lessor’s ability to perform its obligations is unrestricted.

•​Whether any shareholder, lender, etc., consents are necessary. If so, have they been obtained?

•​Whether the transaction will violate any law, rule, or collateral agreement as to the lessor.

Does the opinion of the lessor’s lawyer, to be delivered to a third-party lender, address the following issues:

•​Whether the lessor is properly organized, validly existing, and in good standing.

•​Whether all necessary authorizations, both as to the lease financing and the loan financing, have been obtained.

•​Whether the loan obligations are fully enforceable against the lessor.

•​Whether the lessor has good and marketable title to the leased equipment.

•​Whether the equipment has any liens or encumbrances on it.

•​Whether the lessor’s rights under the lease are unencumbered, including its right to receive the rent payments.

Does the opinion of the guarantor’s lawyer, to be delivered to the lessor, address the following issues:

•​Whether the guarantor is properly organized, validly existing, and in good standing.

•​Whether all necessary authorizations as to the lease financing have been obtained

•​Whether the lease obligations are fully enforceable against the guarantor.

Does the opinion of the vendor’s lawyer, to be delivered to the lessor, address the following issues:

•​Whether the title of the equipment will be delivered free and clear to the lessor.

•​Whether all necessary internal authorizations have been obtained.

Has the lessor been supplied with the required lessee, lessee controlling corporation, and guarantor financial statements?

•​Profit and loss statements.

•​Balance sheets.

•​Officer’s certificate updating the prior financial statements to the closing.

Have adequate lessor financial statements or information been obtained?

•​Profit and loss statements.

•​Balance sheets.

•​Officer’s certificate updating the prior financial statements to the closing.

Have all the critical financial statements been certified by an independent certified public accounting firm?

Has a certified copy of any relevant corporate board of director resolutions been delivered?

If the lease obligations will be guaranteed by a third party, will it be a full and unconditional guarantee? If not, is the limited extent of the guarantee understood?

If personal injury and property damage insurance is required, does the insurance company’s certificate of insurance properly represent the required insurance?

If the lessor must enter into an equipment purchase agreement directly with the vendor, is it prepared to buy the equipment if the lessee backs away? If not, can a purchase agreement assignment be used?

•​Does any equipment purchase agreement assignment specifically provide that only the rights, not the obligations, will be transferred to the lessor?

•​Under an equipment purchase agreement assignment, will the lessor be entitled to all vendor supplied services, training, information, warranties, and indemnities?

•​Has the vendor’s consent been obtained as to the purchase agreement assignment? If so, does it

(1)​Acknowledge the assignment?

(2)​Acknowledge that the lessor will not have to buy the equipment if the lessee backs out before the lease is executed?

Has an equipment bill of sale been included? If so,

•​Is it a warranty bill of sale?

•​Does it contain a representation that the seller has the lawful right and authority to sell the equipment?

If the equipment will be located on leased or mortgaged property, has the landowner or mortgagee supplied a written waiver of any present or future claim to the leased equipment?

Have appropriate UCC financing statements (UCC-1’s) been prepared for filing?

If the transaction is underwritten:

•​Has a participation agreement been prepared?

•​Will the lenders and the equity participants each act through:

(1)​A trust arrangement?

(2)​A partnership arrangement?

•​Has a fee agreement been prepared to formalize the underwriter’s fee arrangement?

Q.​Summary

The ancillary documents that accompany the closing of a lease transaction are often overlooked until the last minute, often being given little thought because of their supplemental nature. These documents, however, can give rise to problems or concerns or issues that can prevent or unduly delay a lease transaction closing. Understanding what they are, and how they work will facilitate avoiding costly closing issues.

c1WP

CHAPTER 5

Tax Advantages in Lease Transactions

A.​Introduction

A lessor’s ability to write off, or depreciate, the cost of the leased equipment is crucial to the economic viability of many equipment lease transactions. Prior to 1986, there was another important tax benefit often available to an equipment lessor: an equipment investment tax credit. The investment tax credit (ITC) offered a taxpayer a big reward for buying new equipment--a 10% credit. Like other credits, the ITC did not merely reduce taxable income, but rather offset, dollar-for-dollar, the equipment owner’s federal income tax liability. The 1986 Tax Reform Act (TRA) dramatically changed the ITC picture. Except for certain transition property--generally property in the works before 1986--the ITC was eliminated by the TRA.

B.​Investment Tax Credit-An Overview

Since ITC, at the time of this writing is not a generally available tax benefit, a detailed discussion how ITCs work is beyond the scope of this book. However, in the government’s on-again, off-again pursuit of economic stimulus, it is still possible that the ITC will again reappear. So, a brief explanation is of use.

Basically, the ITC’s purpose was to encourage investment in new equipment to stimulate economic growth. The tax writers also used it to encourage the growth, development, and stabilization of a business area that the federal government sought to promote.

The ITC rules implemented that purpose by permitting an equipment owner to claim a tax credit in an amount equal to a specified percentage of the cost of equipment bought in a particular tax year against its potential tax liability for that same year. Generally, for equipment placed in service before January 1, 1986, a taxpayer could claim a maximum investment tax credit equal to 10% of the cost of equipment acquired during a tax year. Thus, for example, a taxpayer buying an equipment item in a particular tax year that cost $1 million could reduce its federal income tax liability by an amount equal to $100,000 (10% x $1 million = $100,000) for that year. If a taxpayer would have owed $250,000 in federal income taxes for the purchase year apart from the ITC, it would actually have to pay only $150,000 ($250,000 - $100,000 = $150,000) after claiming the ITC. Given that tax reduction, the ITC played a major role in equipment leasing.

As stated above, the TRA virtually eliminated ITCs, thus magnifying the importance of equipment depreciation benefits to equipment owners. The TRA was not all bad from an equipment lessor’s point of view because it enhanced depreciation deductions for most equipment. It stands to reason, therefore, that a prospective lessor must have a thorough understanding of the depreciation rules to evaluate a leasing transaction. These rules are also important to a prospective lessee, for two reasons:

•​Unless the benefits available are fully understood and evaluated, an intelligent lease versus purchase analysis cannot be made.

•​If a prospective lessor requires depreciation indemnities, the lessee cannot properly assess the potential risks without a clear appreciation of the technical intricacies.

Note: If a transaction that purports to be a lease in fact does not qualify as a true lease for federal income tax purposes, the lessor is not entitled to depreciate the leased asset. The reader is referred to Chapter 6 for an explanation of the guidelines that determine whether a transaction will qualify for true lease classification under the tax rules.

We will now examine the deprecation rules for equipment (personal property).

C.​Equipment Depreciation – An Overview

Among the wide-reaching changes introduced by the 1986 TRA was the Section 168’s Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS)--a revised depreciation system. Replacing the existing Accelerated Cost Recovery System (ACRS) depreciation rules, the MACRS rules generally apply to property placed in service by a taxpayer on or after January 1, 1987, with certain exceptions.

Although MACRS incorporates some of the ACRS concepts, there are substantial and fundamental differences. MACRS, for example, retains the concept of property classes, but reclassifies certain assets into different property classes (also called recovery classes), and adds more classes. There were also changes in depreciation methods and in depreciation conventions.

Under MACRS, three depreciation methods, six recovery periods, and two averaging conventions apply to equipment, depending on a variety of factors.

D.​Property Eligible for MACRS

Besides meeting the MACRS requirements, to be depreciable, equipment must pass muster under Section 167(a). Section 167 establishes the basic rule authorizing an equipment owner to a deduction, in computing federal income tax liability, for the exhaustion, wear, and tear of property used in a trade or business or held for the production of income. All depreciation deductions under MACRS and previous systems must fulfill those threshold requirements: The property must be depreciable (for example, land is considered not to wear out and so is not depreciable) and must be used in a business or income producing activity.

Generally, property qualifying under Section 167(a) may be depreciated under MACRS. The following types of property, however, are excluded:

•​Intangible property.

•​Property that is classified as public utility property (unless the taxpayer uses a normalization method of accounting).

•​Certain property that a lessor has elected to apply a depreciation method not expressed in terms of years (such as the unit of production method).

•​Motion picture films, video tapes, and sound recordings (such as music tapes).

•​Property covered by MACRS antichurning or transition rules.

Also, certain property must be depreciated under an alternative MACRS method, described later on in this chapter.

E.​MACRS Deduction Computations

Four steps determine the annual MACRS depreciation deduction amount for any leased equipment. First, determine the total amount to be depreciated; next, determine the applicable MACRS recovery class from among the six classes; third, apply the appropriate depreciation method; and fourth incorporate the applicable convention.

1.​Total Amount to Be Depreciated

The total amount a lessor can write off for acquired equipment, and thus the annual deduction amount, depends on the lessor’s basis in the equipment. For MACRS purposes, basis is determined under general Internal Revenue Code rules for determining the gain or loss on the sale or other disposition of an asset, and includes not only what the lessor paid for the equipment, but also the costs incurred in acquiring the equipment.

However, a lessor must reduce the basis so calculated by any amount expensed under Section 179, by any amount claimed as a first year bonus depreciation and, if an investment credit is available, such as an energy credit, to account for that credit. There is, however, no reduction for salvage value.

2.​MACRS Recovery Classes

MACRS continues, with modifications, the recovery class concept instituted by ACRS. The recovery class concept represents the current solution to the longstanding tax question--over how long a period should depreciation deductions be spread. Before 1971, the lessor took depreciation deductions over an estimate of the equipment’s useful life--determined based on the facts and circumstances. While having the virtue of potential accuracy, the facts and circumstances method was cumbersome and difficult for both taxpayers and the IRS to administer.

In 1971, the IRS simplified matters by promulgating the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). ADR set out a list of prescribed asset classes. Generally, an asset’s useful life was determined by referring to the list. (For an explanation of pre-ACRS property, see Part III of this chapter.)

In 1981, the Economic Recovery Tax Act (ERTA) introduced ACRS. ACRS grouped assets based on their ADR class lives into recovery classes. For example, property with an ADR class life of more than 4 years, but less than 10, was put into the 5-year class. Under ACRS, all personal property fell into one of four personal property recovery classes. ERTA also replaced the various optional depreciation methods with statutory write-off periods.

MACRS continues the recovery class concept, grouping equipment into one of six recovery classes. Like ACRS, the MACRS recovery class grouping is based on the equipment’s class life, assigned by the ADR tables. The ADR class lives for MACRS purposes are set forth in Revenue Procedure 87-57 [IRB 1987-42].

MACRS also assigns certain equipment to particular recovery classes notwithstanding their ADR classification. Property neither assigned to an ADR class life, nor specifically assigned by MACRS, falls within the 7-year class. The Treasury has, within certain restrictions, the authority to shift the property assigned by MACRS from one class to another.

The following are the six recovery classes applicable to equipment:

•​3-Year Property. The 3-year MACRS class generally includes property with an ADR class life of four years or less (for example, special tools and devices for the manufacture of rubber products and special handling devices for the manufacture of food and beverages). Automobiles and light general purpose trucks that have ADR lives of less than four years have been expressly assigned to the 5-year class.

Note: There are certain depreciation restrictions and requirements placed on passenger automobiles used for business. The reader is referred to Internal Revenue Code Section 280F and Revenue Procedure and Revenue Procedure Rev. Proc. 2012-23 for details.

•​5-Year Property. The 5-year property class generally includes equipment with an ADR class life of greater than 4 years and less than 10 years. Cars, light and heavy general purpose trucks, computer and peripheral equipment, trailers and trailer-mounted containers are examples of types of equipment that come within the 5-year classification.

•​7-Year Property. The 7-year MACRS class generally includes property with an ADR class life of 10 years or greater but less than 16 years or generally property without any class life, for example, office furniture, fixtures, and commercial aircraft (except helicopters). Railroad cars, machinery and equipment and track are specifically assigned by MACRS to the 7-year class.

•​10-Year Property. The 10-year MACRS property class generally includes property with an ADR class life equal to 16 years or greater but less than 20 years. This class includes vessels, barges and tugs not used in marine construction or as a fishing vessel, smart electric meters, smart electric grid systems, fruit-and nut-bearing trees or vines placed in service after 1988 and single-purpose agricultural or horticultural structures placed in service after 1988.

•​15-Year Property. The 15-year MACRS property class includes property with an ADR class life of 20 years or greater but less than 25 years. This class includes municipal sewage treatment plants, telephone distribution plants, and comparable equipment that is used for two-way exchange of voice and data communications. Cable television equipment that is used primarily for one-way communication isn’t “comparable equipment” for the purposes of this asset classification.

•​20-Year Property. The 20-year MACRS property class includes property with an ADR class life of 25 years and greater. Specifically included in this class by statute are assets used in the transmission and distribution of electricity; property used by a utility to gather, treat and distribute water; farm buildings and municipal sewers.

3.​Depreciation Methods

Under MACRS, the lessor recovers the equipment’s cost over the number of years in the recovery class plus one; for example, three-year property yields deductions over a four-year period. For equipment in the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 10-year class, a lessor generally uses the 200% declining balance method, discussed below, of depreciation, with a switch to straight-line depreciation at the time that maximizes the deduction, taking into account the half-year or mid-quarter convention, discussed below. For property in the 15-and 20-year classes, a lessor generally uses the 150% declining balance method with a switch to the straight-line method at a time that maximizes the deduction, taking into account the half-year or mid-quarter convention, discussed below. Instead of the applicable declining balance method, a straight-line or alternative method of depreciation may be elected, discussed below.

Under the declining balance method, the equipment owner calculates the depreciation deduction for any year by multiplying the asset’s basis--reduced by any prior years’ depreciation deductions--by the declining balance rate, and then multiplying by the percent available each year. Thus, for example, for an asset with a $100 basis and a five-year recovery period, using the 200% declining balance method, the first year’s depreciation is $40 (ignoring the averaging conventions):

$100 basis X 2 X 2O% = $40

For the second year, the MACRS deduction would be $24:

$100 basis - $40 first-year deduction = $60

$60 X 2 X 20% = $24

And so on, for three more years.

At the point when the declining balance method yields smaller deductions than straight-line, the method switches to straight-line. (Depreciation methods are explained in more detail below at Part III, Section C.) The 200% balance method resulted in more accelerated deductions than had been available under ACRS. The IRS has calculated and published, in Revenue Procedure 87-57 [IRB 1987-42], the appropriate annual deductions applying the 200% and 150% methods for each MACRS recovery class.

As stated above, a lessor can elect to use the straight-line depreciation method instead of the prescribed MACRS accelerated method established for MACRS property classes. Once an election is made, it’s irrevocable (unless consented to by the IRS) and applies to all the MACRS eligible property within the same asset class that is placed in service during the relevant tax year. The assets within the class for which a straight-line method is elected are to be written-off over the recovery period prescribed under the applicable regular recovery period.

Note: For certain depreciable computer software that has been acquired after August 10, 1993, and which is not an amortizable Section 197 intangible, the taxpayer may depreciate it using the straight-line method of depreciation over a 3-year period [see Internal Revenue Code Section 167 (f)]. Prior to August 11, 1993, if the taxpayer received computer software with its computer and the cost of the software was “bundled” with the computer hardware cost (not separately stated), the taxpayer depreciated it along with the computer hardware under MACRS over the specified 5-year recovery period. If the software cost was separately stated (“unbundled”), its cost had to be amortized over a 5-year period on a straight-line basis. If the software had a useful life of less than one year, it was simply expensed.

4.​MACRS Averaging Conventions

In determining how to handle depreciation deductions under any system, there is an issue of how to handle placements in, and retirements from, service that occur during the year.

Generally, under MACRS a lessor recovers equipment costs using the half-year convention. Under that convention, equipment is deemed to have been placed in service at the mid-point of the year in which it was placed in service, regardless of when during the year it was placed in service. Similarly, an asset is deemed to have been disposed of or retired from service at the mid-point of the year during which it was disposed of or retired, regardless of when in fact it was disposed of during the year. Thus, a lessor is entitled to one-half a full year’s permitted depreciation in the year it places an eligible asset in service, and one-half a full year’s depreciation in the year it disposes of or retires the asset from service. When there is a short tax year (a year less than 12 months), an asset is deemed to have been placed in service for a period of time equal to one-half the number of months in the short tax year.

To prevent taxpayers from abusing the half-year convention by bunching purchases at year’s end, MACRS includes a mid-quarter convention. That convention kicks in if a taxpayer places in service, in the tax year’s last quarter, over 40% of the aggregate bases of property placed in service during the tax year. Under the mid-quarter convention, all property placed in service (or disposed of) during a tax-year quarter is treated as though placed in service (or disposed of) in the middle of such quarter.

5.​Applying MACRS

To summarize: Find the appropriate recovery class and check the averaging convention. Then refer to Revenue Procedure 87-57 to find the MACRS deduction annual percentage. (Note: 3-, 5-, 7-, and 10-year classes are based on 200% declining method; 15- and 20-year classes use 150% method.)

F.​The Alternative MACRS Depreciation Approach

The 1986 TRA established an alternative depreciation system (ADS) that the lessor must use in certain select cases and can elect in other situations. Under ADS, a taxpayer generally is to compute its permitted depreciation allowance by applying the straight-line method, without making a basis reduction for salvage value, over a recovery period typically longer than that specified under the other MACRS approaches. The applicable averaging conventions--the half-year or mid-quarter convention--apply in the same situations as under the regular MACRS.

1.​When Must ADS Be Used?

A taxpayer must use ADS to depreciate the following:

•​Equipment used predominantly outside the United States. This is equipment located for more than 50% of the time during a tax year outside the United States. To determine U.S. use, the rules relating to the ITC have been deemed to apply. Under the 1986 TRA rules, there is an additional special exception to the predominant use outside of the United States classification for property that qualifies as a satellite or other spacecraft or interest therein held by a U.S. person and that is launched within the United States.

•​Tax-exempt bond financed property. This is equipment that has been financed out of the proceeds of tax-exempt bonds that were issued after March 1, 1986. It includes any property to the extent that it’s financed directly or indirectly by an obligation if the interest from that obligation is tax exempt.

•​Tax-exempt use property. This includes equipment that’s leased to a tax-exempt entity under certain types of leases that don’t fit specified Internal Revenue Code requirements (known as “disqualified” leases). A lease is considered to be a disqualified lease if, for example, its lease term exceeds 20 years.

•​Imported property. This is equipment produced or manufactured in a foreign country and is the subject of an Executive Order issued by the U.S. President. It is considered made outside the United States if it’s completed outside the United States or 50% or more of its basis is attributable to value added outside of the United States. The President has the authority to issue an Executive Order for property brought in from a foreign country that either maintains burdensome trade restrictions that aren’t consistent with trade agreements or engages in discriminatory or other acts that unjustifiably restrict U.S. commerce.

2.​When Can ADS Be Elected?

A lessor can elect to use ADS as to any MACRS property for any MACRS eligible tax year. The election, once made, is irrevocable and applies to all property in the class that the taxpayer has placed in service during the election year.

3.​ADS Recovery Periods

Under ADS, the lessor will generally depreciate the equipment over the ADR class life period. The applicable recovery periods are set forth in Revenue Procedure 87-56. The following are some of the assigned specific recovery periods notwithstanding their ADR class lives:

•​5 years. Automobiles, light general purpose trucks, or qualified technological equipment.

•​12 years. Personal property with no class life.

•​50 years. Railroad grading and tunnel bores.

4.​Applying ADS

Revenue Procedure 87-57 sets out tables to find annual deduction percentage amount for equipment depreciated under ADS. The reader is referred to this Revenue Procedure for the ADS recovery period details.

G.​Antiabuse Rules Under MACRS

Because MACRS generally permits more rapid deductions than prior systems, Congress was concerned that certain taxpayers might try to use MACRS on equipment previously placed in service through transfers not resulting in substantive ownership changes. To address this concern, MACRS incorporates antichurning provisions that precluded specified property from qualifying under MACRS rules. As a result, the 1986 TRA incorporated into the law special provisions to prevent the improper “churning” so as to obtain enhanced benefits under the MACRS method. If one of the antichurning provisions applies, the taxpayer can’t use MACRS. Thus, MACRS can’t be used if the equipment was any of the following:

•​Owned or used at any time during 1986 by the taxpayer or a related person.

•​Acquired from a person who owned the property at any time during 1986 and, as part of the transaction, the property user remained the same.

•​Leased by the taxpayer to a person, or any person related to such person, who owned or used the property at any time during 1986.

•​Acquired in a transaction where the property user didn’t change, and it wasn’t MACRS eligible property’ in the transferor’s hands.

H.​Recapture

Generally, on disposition of MACRS equipment, the equipment owner must recapture, as ordinary income, the MACRS deduction--including any Section 179 deduction (discussed below)--up to the amount realized on the equipment disposition.

I.​Expensing

Under Section 179, an equipment owner can elect to deduct currently up to $25, 500 of MACRS property used in the active conduct of its business in a tax year. (The $25,500 limit is the total per taxpayer, not for each equipment item.) At this time of this writing there is proposed legislation before Congress to extend the deduction lint to $500,000 for a given tax year.

J.​MACRS Effective Dates

The 1986 TRA depreciation rules are generally effective for property placed in service on or after January 1, 1987 for tax years that end on or after that date. A lessor can elect to use the MACRS rules for property placed in service after July 31, 1986, and before January 1, 1987, if the property wasn’t transition property. That election could be on an asset-by-asset basis and is irrevocable.

1.​Transition Rules

The general effective dates don’t apply to property subject to transitional rules. Under the general transitional rules, MACRS doesn’t apply to property placed in service after December 31, 1986, and pre-MACRS rules apply if the property:

•​was constructed or acquired by the taxpayer under a written contract binding on March 1, 1986;

•​was an equipped building (including equipment and machinery to be used in or incidental to the building), or a plant facility not housed in a building, on which construction began no later than March 1, 1986 under a specific written plan and greater than 50% of the cost was either incurred or committed no later than March 1,1986; or

•​was self-constructed property (constructed or reconstructed by the taxpayer) where that the construction or reconstruction started by, and at least the lesser of 5% of the property’s cost or $1 million was incurred or committed by, March 1, 1986.

Transition property with an ADR class life of at least 7 years but less than 20 years must be placed in service before January 1, 1989. Transition property with a class life of 20 years or greater must be placed in service before January 1, 1991.

Special transition property rules applied to certain specified property. These include property that is an integral part of a qualified urban renewal project, certain projects that qualify under the 1978 Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, property that is integral to carrying out certain supply or service contracts, and certain solid waste disposal facilities. The lessor writes off property that comes within the special transitional rules under pre-1987 depreciation rules.

K.​Summary.

Before the enactment of the 1986 Tax Reform Act (TRA), there were two key tax benefits that an equipment owner had available: equipment depreciation and equipment investment tax credit (ITC) for, generally, new equipment. The investment tax credit offered an equipment purchaser an attractive tax benefit, the ability to offset dollar-for-dollar the equipment owner’s federal income tax liability in an amount equal to the available ITC. The TRA, however, generally eliminated available equipment ITCs, but, kept in place, and enhanced, the equipment owner’s ability to write-off (depreciate) the cost of its equipment. At the time of this writing changes are being discussed in governmental circles to enhance equipment ownership tax benefits.

c202

CHAPTER 6

How to Cope Successfully With The Tax Lease Rules

A.​The True Lease

When the parties sign a document entitled a “lease,” and the document is a lease under state and local law, is it a lease for federal income tax purposes? Not necessarily. The financing transaction, under the federal tax laws, must be considered a “true” lease--a lease for federal income tax purposes. And that means that the lessor must be deemed to be the lease asset’s owner. Failure to so qualify as the tax owner will cause the lessor to lose the available ownership tax benefits (and even possibly be subjected to penalties) and the lessee to forfeit rent deductions. Result: The leasing transaction sinks into a pool of red ink.

What, then, characterizes a “true” lease? The term is not specifically defined as such in the Internal Revenue Code or its underlying regulations. Two United States Supreme Court cases, however, established basic definitional rules--Helvering v. F. & R. Lazarus & Co., 308 U.S. 252 (1939) and Frank Lyon Company v. United States, 435 U.S. 561 (1978). The Helvering case is noted for setting down the substance over form rule-that the tax nature of what is purported to be a true lease depends on whether the lessor can be determined to have sufficient property ownership of the asset involved, taking into account all the surrounding facts and circumstances, to be accorded the tax attributes available to an asset owner, or whether the purported lessor is really a conditional seller, an option holder, a lender, or some other type of transaction participant. The case’s decision, although very general in nature, was the basis guidance looked to until, in 1978, the advent of the Frank Lyon case, when the United States Supreme Court, for the first time since the 1939 Lazarus decision, took another look at the leasing tax ownership issue. The bottom line of the Frank Lyon case decision--as summarized by the Supreme Court--in considering tax ownership, and therefor true lease status, is to determine whether the lessor, rather than the lessee, is the equipment’s tax owner, having “significant and genuine attributes of the traditional lessor status. What those attributes are in any particular case will necessarily depend upon its facts.”

While the ultimate “true” lease test is based on the transaction’s facts and circumstances, the IRS, in 1975, provided guidelines for leveraged lease transactions which, if followed, will help assure they stay afloat. In the form of four published Revenue Procedures (Revenue Procedure 75-21, Revenue Procedure 75-28, Revenue Procedure 76-30, and Revenue Procedure 79-48), collectively called the Guidelines, the IRS sets out the formal criteria that must be met if the parties to a transaction want to obtain a ruling (referred to as a private ruling) from the IRS that the transaction qualifies as a lease for federal income tax purposes. Revenue Procedure 7512, which contained the “foundation” rules for obtaining a favorable opinion from the IRS that a transaction would qualify as a “true” lease for Federal income tax purposes, was refined and reissued by a later Revenue Procedure, Revenue Procedure 2001-28, which, together with Revenue Procedure 2001-29, now comprise what are referred to as the “Guidelines.” While nominally limited to ruling requests, the Guidelines provide helpful advice on achieving true lease status even where the parties to the transaction do not request an IRS private ruling. Prior to the issuance of the Guidelines, the parities to a lease transaction found some guidance in Revenue Ruling 55-540 [1955-2 CB 39], discussed later in this chapter. Revenue Ruling 55-540, which still has guidance applicability, focuses primarily on describing aspects of a transaction that would cause it to fail to qualify as a true lease. It has applicability to all purported lease transactions, not just leveraged lease transaction.

B.​Procedural Alternatives

How do the parties maximize their chances of obtaining true lease status? The best two alternatives-obtain an IRS private ruling letter or proceed without one while following the Guidelines and Revenue Ruling 55-540.

1.​A Private Letter Ruling

As a general matter, if a taxpayer submits a ruling request to the IRS concerning a transaction, the IRS, after reviewing the request, will rule on some or all of the transaction’s tax consequences. Then, provided the information submitted was accurate and complete, the IRS’s position on the issues on which it has ruled is considered final. In case of leveraged leasing transactions, the Guidelines not only prescribe the criteria that must be met for a transaction to receive a favorable true lease ruling, but set out the specific submission procedures that the submitting taxpayer must follow when making their request. It should be noted, however, that if all of the Guidelines are not met, the IRS will still consider a favorable ruling that a transaction qualifies as a true lease in appropriate cases based on all of the facts and circumstances. If the transaction parties receive a favorable ruling from the IRS, they can rest assured that the transaction’s anticipated tax results will not be challenged.

While the safest route is to obtain a ruling, it is not always the optimum alternative for a number of reasons. First, it is costly: Preparing and submitting the request involves a significant amount of legal work, resulting in a higher transaction cost, and a fee must be paid to the IRS. Second, submitting a request takes time--both to prepare the request and for the IRS to rule. Third, if the IRS’s ruling is unfavorable and the transaction has been closed, there is a risk that this will draw attention to an issue that may otherwise have gone unnoticed.

a.​When to Consider an IRS Private Letter Ruling

Weighing the downside factors of asking the IRS for a private letter ruling discussed in the previous section against the increased certainty, a request should be considered when:

•​The lessor will not go ahead without a ruling.

•​There is considerable doubt as to the lease’s true lease status or other tax issues.

•​The deal’s overall costs are substantial enough to sustain the added costs.

•​The lessee has time to wait for the ruling to be issued before closing the deal.

2.​Proceeding Without a Ruling

Where, for one or more reasons above, a ruling is not practical, the next safest approach is to structure the lease financing so it complies with the IRS’s Guidelines. As mentioned earlier, the Guidelines tell taxpayers what criteria a transaction must minimally meet to obtain an advance ruling on a leveraged leasing deal. They do not establish as a matter a law whether a transaction will or will not qualify as a true lease. In addition, the IRS does not promise that compliance with the Guidelines will guarantee favorable treatment on audit. As a practical matter, however, it is highly unlikely that a transaction meeting the Guidelines would have IRS audit problems. So, compliance with the Guidelines can provide good comfort to parties to a purported leveraged lease transaction that the arrangement will in fact qualify as a true lease.

It should be keep in mind that although following the Guidelines do not guarantee true lease treatment, failure to comply precisely with each Guideline provision does not necessarily doom a lease. Reasons: (1) The IRS’s Guidelines are its position only on advance rulings. They do not necessarily reflect the IRS’s view of the law so a slight variation may not raise a problem on audit. (2) If the transaction goes to court, the Guidelines will carry less weight; under Frank Lyon the court will look at all the facts and circumstances, and may well find, on balance, that a true lease exists.

Observations:

•​As the equipment leasing industry, and its advisors, have gained experience working with the Guideline rules, there has been an increasing number of transactions that have been put together that do not fully comply with the Guideline rules. For example, some lessors may make less than a 20% equity investment, or grant fixed price purchase options, something that would violate the favorable Guideline ruling requirements, as discussed in the material following. Certain Guideline requirements, however, are generally never deviated from; in particular, the anticipated residual value test and the remaining useful life requirement, also discussed later on in this chapter.

•​There is another reason the leasing industry, and its advisors, have increasingly varied from the Guidelines--competition. Because the leasing market has matured, and there are often too many lessors, with too much money, chasing too few lease deals. To win business, let alone survive, lessors have chosen to become more tax aggressive--taking chances that they may have not otherwise chosen to take.

When a ruling will not be sought, an advisable course of action, particularly in situations where there will be variation from the Guidelines, is to obtain a written opinion from experienced lease tax counsel that the arrangement will have the desired lease treatment. While this increases costs, it may provide some beneficial support if a transaction is audited, or, when defending an IRS litigation challenge.

C.​The Guidelines

As briefly mentioned above, Revenue Procedure 75-21, was modified and superseded by Revenue Procedure 2001-28 and now with Revenue Procedure 2001-28, which now comprise the Guidelines:

•​Revenue Procedure 2001-28 [[CB 1156, 5/07/2001]] generally sets out conditions that must be met for there to be an advance ruling on a leveraged lease.

•​Revenue Procedure 2001-29 [CB 2001-1 1160], sets out information and representations required to be furnished by taxpayers in a leveraged leasing transaction advance ruling request.

Keep in mind that the Guidelines are expressly designed to tell taxpayers what they must do to obtain an advance ruling. And that following the rules, even where no ruling is sought, is advisable to help assure true lease treatment. It should also be noted that, although the Guidelines apply only to leveraged leases, the parties to a nonleveraged transaction should consider those portions of the Guidelines that do not apply to the transaction debt aspects.

In addition to following the Guidelines, prospective lessors and lessees will want to comply with Revenue Ruling 55-540 [1955-2 CB 39], explained below, which gives some general guidance on all types of leasing transactions, leveraged and nonleveraged.

Observations:

•​Syndicators must be careful when deviating from the Guidelines in structuring a lease financing, even though each party initially states a private ruling will not be required. Invariably, once the parties, particularly the equity investors, hear all about the theoretical risks from their lawyers, they get nervous and frequently ask for a favorable opinion from tax counsel as to the true lease nature. In many situations, when there is a Guideline variance, counsel is reluctant to give an opinion, because of the uncertainty as to the variance’s effect. Coming at the last minute, this can lead to a serious roadblock to completing the deal.

•​When a private ruling will not be involved, the Guideline rules are sometimes stretched to keep all the parties satisfied. For example, a company may not be willing to lease equipment unless there is a low fixed-price purchase option. Although potentially prohibited under the rules depending on amount, a prospective lessor may grant such a right just to win the transaction.

At first glance, the Guideline rules do not appear complex. This is not the case. In structuring a particular transaction, care must be taken not to violate them inadvertently--not a simple task. The best protection against a violation is a thorough understanding of the principal Guideline concepts. Toward this end, let’s examine the various Guideline aspects.

1.​The Lessor Must Make and Maintain a Minimum Investment

Under the Guidelines, the lessor must initially make an unconditional equity investment in the equipment equal to at least 20% of its cost. This can be done in a number of ways: with cash, with other consideration, or by personally assuming the obligation to buy the equipment. Typically, the lessor makes a cash payment from its own funds. The 20% equity investment is referred to as the “minimum investment.”

The IRS requires the unconditional nature of the initial investment to prevent the lessor from arranging to receive, either from the lessee or certain lessee-related parties, all or any part of its equity back once the equipment is put into service. This is in keeping with the IRS’s position that if a lessor wants to be treated as an equipment owner for tax purposes, and thus be entitled to claim the tax benefits, there must be an ownership risk.

When a lessor intends to meet the minimum equity test by personally assuming the obligation to purchase the equipment, its net worth must be sufficient to make the assumption in fact meaningful.

Observation: It is generally felt that the 20% equity investment requirement is higher than actually necessary to survive an IRS true lease challenge on audit. In the Pre-Guidelines era, the IRS would issue a favorable true lease ruling even when the equity investment was a low as 15% of equipment cost. Many leveraged lease transactions are structured today with less than a 20% equity investment when a favorable private letter ruling will not be sought.

The lessor must also maintain this 20% “minimum investment” in the equipment during the lease term. The test for determining whether the minimum investment rule has been met during the term is complicated; follow it carefully. The test will be met if the excess of (1) the cumulative payments that the lessee is obligated to pay over (2) the cumulative disbursements that the lessor is obligated to pay as a result of the equipment ownership is never greater than the sum of (a) any excess of the initial equity investment over 20% of the equipment cost and (b) the cumulative pro rata portion of the transaction’s projected profit, not considering tax benefits. Simply, this means that the excess of the amounts coming in to the lessor over the amounts going out must never be more than the sum of any equity investment amount greater than 20% of equipment cost and the pro rata portion of the anticipated profit. The tax benefits accruing from ownership cannot be considered as profit in the computation.

Also, the minimum investment test must be met at the end of the lease term. It consists of two basic parts:

•​The lessor must show that the leased equipment’s estimated fair market residual value is equal to at least 20% of its original cost.

•​The lessor must show that a reasonable estimate of the equipment’s useful life at the end of the lease term is the longer of one year or 20% of the equipment’s originally estimated useful life.

Illustrative Example--At-Risk Residual Test: Company A wants to lease a $10,000 steel shipping container from Company B for an 11-year lease term. The container has an estimated useful life of 12 years and an estimated fair market value at the end of 11 years of $2,300. Will the end-of-the-lease-term “at risk” investment test be met?

The estimated fair market residual value test has been met. That is, the $2,300 residual meets the first test (20% of $10,000 = $2,000, the minimum).

The useful life test has not been met. Twenty percent of 12 years is 2.4 years. When the lease term is over there will only be 1 year of useful life left, and the second test says the remaining useful life must be the longer of 1 year or, in our example, 2.4 years.

In making the fair market residual value determination, no weight can be given to any inflationary increases or deflationary decreases during the lease term--the determination must be made as to future value based on current dollars. Also, the estimated residual amount must be reduced by any anticipated costs that may be incurred by the lessor in removing and re-acquiring the property at the end of the lease term.

Observation: There is an exception to the Guideline rule requiring the lessor to take onto account anticipated removal and redelivery costs in determining whether the estimated residual value test is met: The lessor generally need not account for such cost when the lessee is obligated under the lease to pay for the removal and redelivery costs. This leads to an implied exception that if the lessor could realize the equipment’s residual value without equipment removal by the original lessee, another lessee, the lessor or a purchaser, then these estimated removal cost also would not have to be taken into account in determining whether the estimated residual test has been met.

These calculations cannot be made without first figuring out what the “lease term” will be for a particular transaction. The lease term is not merely the “primary term” designated by the lease document. By definition, the “term” must include all renewal and extension periods other than those that are at fair market rental value and are at the lessee’s option. For example, the lessor would have to include any period for which it could require the lessee to continue to lease the equipment even though it would be at fair market rental value. This rule prevents a lessor from avoiding its “residual risk” through a forced renewal of the lease, which would in effect run until the lessor had no residual value risk. This again reinforces the Guidelines intent that if an equipment owner wants to be a “lessor” it must incur real ownership risks.

2.​The Transaction Must Produce a Profit

The Guidelines provide that the lessor must make a profit on the transaction. At first this statement seems ridiculous. What business person would be involved in a situation in which he or she didn’t make a profit? None, so what is the IRS getting at? Simply, that the lessor must make money on the deal aside from the return generated by the tax benefits. In other words, the lessor must be able to show that the lease transaction makes economic sense without considering the tax benefits. The IRS wants to make sure that lease deals are not merely tax avoidance devices.

How does a lessor know whether the profit requirement has been met? By meeting the following Guideline test: The total rent and other amounts that the lessee is obligated to pay over the lease term, when added to the equipment’s estimated residual value, has to be greater than the amount of money that the lessor is obligated to pay out for the equipment, such as debt service and equity investment, including any related direct equity financing costs. Simply, the lessor must anticipate having money left over, when adding in the estimated residual value, at the end of the lease term after repaying any transaction debt, the money it took out of its own pocket to acquire the equipment, and any other direct equity investment financing costs.

Observation: Under the Guidelines, the profit test would be met even if the profit is as little as $1.

Recommended Computation: Run the following profit test calculation from Revenue Procedure 2001-28:

Demonstrate that the items identified as (1), (2), and (3) below will solve the formula “(1) + (2) exceed (3).”

1.​The projected aggregate payments required to be paid by the lessee to or for the lessor over the lease term.

2.​The value of the residual investment described in Section 4(.01)(3) of Revenue Procedure 2001-28.

3.​The projected sum of the aggregate disbursements required to be paid by or for the lessor in connection with the ownership of the property, including the lessor’s initial equity investment, and any direct costs to finance the equity investment.

Illustrative Example--the Profit Test: Company B has leased a new $100,000 barge to Company A under the following facts:

Lease term10 years
Barge residual value$20,000
Equity investment$20,000
Debt principal$80,000
Debt interest rate10%
Loan term10 years
Total aggregate rentals$125,000
Legal fees$5,000
Miscellaneous fees$1,000

For simplicity, assume that the debt repayments are based on an average outstanding principal of $40,000 over the 10-year period. Based on the above, the deal evolves as follows:

Total debt interest due$40,000
Total principal payment$80,000
Total fees ($5,000 + $1,000)$6,000

Does the lessor pass the IRS profit test? The formula is: Aggregate rentals + residual value must exceed cash out.

Aggregate rentals + residual = $125,000 + $20,000 = $145,000

Equity investment + debt service + fees = cash out = $20,000 + $80,000 + $40,000 + $6,000 = $146,000

The lessor fails the test.

The net result: The rents must be increased to pass the test.

Not only must a lessor anticipate a profit, it must also demonstrate that the transaction will produce a positive cash flow that is “reasonable” in amount. That is, the aggregate rents and other required lessee payments must comfortably exceed the aggregate outflows, basically the debt service and the direct equity financing costs.

Observations:

•​Although the Guidelines do not spell out what will be a reasonable cash flow amount, historically the IRS has ruled favorably when the cash flow amount is in the range of 2 to 4% of the equity investment per annum--computed on a simple interest basis.

•​The Guidelines do not explicitly state that the positive cash flow must be on an even basis over the lease term, however, it is generally considered prudent to avoid situations in which the positive cash only exists for one or two lease periods.

Recommended Computation: Run the following positive cash flow test calculation from Revenue Procedure 2001-29(Section 4(.07)(2).

Demonstrate that the lessor will have a projected positive cash flow from the lease transaction. This analysis must contain the following information to show that the items identified as (1) and (2) will solve the formula “(1) exceeds (2) by a reasonable minimum amount.”

1.​The projected aggregate payments required to be paid by the lessee to or for the lessor over the lease term.

2.​The projected aggregate disbursements required to be paid by or for the lessor in connection with the ownership of the property, excluding the lessor’s initial equity investment, but including any direct costs to finance the equity investment.

3.​No Lessee Investment

Generally, the lessee cannot invest in the equipment by providing funds necessary to buy, add to, modify, or improve the equipment. There are several exceptions. The lessee may make “severable improvements,” additions or improvements that can easily be removed without causing material damage, so long as they are not necessary for the equipment’s intended use, and the lessor does not have the right to buy them at below market price.

The lessee generally cannot make nonseverable improvements, those that cannot readily be removed by the lessee without causing material damage. However, the lessee can make nonseverable improvements if they (1) are not required to complete the property for the lessee’s intended use, (2) do not constitute a lessee or lessee-related party equity investment (as, for example, if the lessor is required to buy the improvement), and (3) do not cause the property to become limited use property (property of use only to the lessee). Also, the lessee can be permitted or required to make nonseverable improvements provided they are necessary to comply with health, safety, or environmental standards which are required by governmental law or regulation (including industry standards which have government recognition) or do not increase the original property’s productivity or capacity more than 125% of original performance, or, if so, do not cost, when added to other non-compliance leasehold improvement costs, in excess of 10% of the original cost, adjusted for inflation). The rules governing severable and nonseverable improvements are extensive, and an in-depth explanation is beyond the scope of this chapter. The reader can refer to Revenue Procedure 2001-28 (Section 4 (04)(3(a)) for a full explanation.

Also, ordinary maintenance and repairs that the lessee must make at its expense are not deemed “additions or improvements” and are thus excluded from the rule. The problem with this exception is that the Guidelines do not set up any parameters for determining what is considered “ordinary maintenance and repairs.” If the IRS successfully challenges any expenses as not “ordinary,” there may be a risk that the true lease nature will be lost.

Under the same basic concept, the lessee cannot pay for any equipment cost overruns. Usually this becomes a problem only when equipment with a long construction period is involved. In many of these situations, the purchase contracts have price escalation clauses. Some prospective lessors committing to lease such equipment before completion limit their cost exposure by specifying they will not pay for equipment if it exceeds a certain amount. If a lessor had this type of “cap,” a prospective lessee runs the risk of having to negotiate a new lease deal at the last minute or buy the equipment.

4.​The Lessee Cannot Be a Lender

Before the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 75-21, some lessees and parties related to them loaned money to the lessor to be used toward buying the equipment. For example, a prospective lessee may want to lease equipment manufactured by its parent company. The parent company would offer to sell the equipment to the lessor on a favorable installment basis. The payment delay would “pump up” a lessor’s time value yield over a non-delayed payment, and at least part of the benefit would be reflected in a more attractive rental rate.

Under the Guidelines, the lessee and members of the lessee group are specifically prohibited from lending funds to the lessor to assist in the equipment financing. Thus, direct loans and other credit-extending techniques similar to that described in the previous paragraph will transgress the Guidelines and prevent the issuance of a favorable private ruling on the transaction.

5.​Certain Guarantees Cannot Be Used

The lessee and certain lessee-associated parties, such as its parent company or sister subsidiary, cannot guarantee any equipment debt. For example, a lessee’s parent company cannot guarantee the repayment of a leveraged lease third-party loan. In most cases this will not be a great loss; however, it was a handy technique for lessors to use when, for example, third-party, nonrecourse lenders wanted added security.

The Guidelines permit lessee-related parties to guarantee certain conventional obligations found in a net lease, such as rent, maintenance, or insurance premium obligations. This takes some of the sting out of the debt guarantee prohibition.

6.​Lessee Purchase Options Must Be at Fair Market Value

To insure that the lessee is not the equipment owner, the Guidelines prohibit any arrangement granting a lessee or lessee-related party the option to buy the leased equipment at a price below its fair market value. The lessee may have a purchase option only if the price is no less than the equipment’s fair market value at the time of purchase under the option.

This rule eliminates all fixed price purchase options, including so-called nominal purchase options. A typical nominal purchase right is one in which the lessee can buy the equipment at the end of the lease term for $1.00. In the past, some lessors had used this option to induce a prospective lessee to take their deal by claiming that lessees could have the best of both worlds: A rental deduction during the lease term and, in effect, an equipment purchase credit for the rent paid.

Observation: Although the IRS will refuse to issue a favorable true lease ruling when a transaction contains a fixed-price purchase option, many tax advisors feel that by following pre-Guideline case law (which upheld as true lease transactions those that contain fixed price purchase options that were not so low that it was “reasonably certain” the lessee would exercise such option), the transaction would be entitled to true lease treatment. Fixed price purchase options are particularly attractive to companies that are aware certain equipment will have a “high residual” at the end of the term. With a fair market value purchase option, they run the risk that their cost to buy will be substantial in relation to the original price. This would, in turn, relatively increase their effective leasing cost. Therefore, the lower the option’s exercise price, the less the overall cost.

Illustrative Example--The Purchase Cost Is Critical: Company A wants to lease a barge from Company B. The facts are as follows:

Original barge cost$100,000
Estimated residual value$20,000

If the lessee, Company A, had an option to buy the barge at the lease term’s end for $20,000, its cost for leasing could be easily determined in advance. The rents and the purchase price are known. Assume instead that the lessee was granted only a fair market value purchase option under the Guidelines. If, at the end of the lease term, the barge was actually worth $50,000 because of the current demand, the lessee would have to pay out an additional $30,000-thus increasing the overall cost.

The above example is not unrealistic. There are many cases where items, such as barges, railcars or private aircraft, have a market value after years of use equal to or greater than the original cost. Leasing that equipment, therefore, can be expensive if the lessee wants to buy it at the end of the term and must pay the fair market value.

7.​Lessor Cannot Have Right to Require Sale

A lessor is specifically prohibited from having any initial right to require “any party” to buy the leased equipment for any reason, except when there are nonconformities with written supply, construction, or manufacture specifications. The lessor’s investment in the equipment would, therefore, be said to be subject to the “risks of the market.”

Thus, a lessor cannot have the right called a “put”--to force an equipment sale at a predetermined price at the lease term’s end to, for example, the lessee, a manufacturer, or a dealer. What does this mean for a lessor concerned about whether certain equipment will have any residual value? Simply, that a zero residual value may have to be assumed in calculating the rent to insure that the transaction’s economic return will be maintained. Were “puts” permitted, a lessor could base its investment return analysis on an anticipated residual value equal to the “put.” As a result, a lessee could then be charged a relatively lower rent amount during the lease term on potentially good residual value equipment. If the equipment could be sold at the end of the lease for an amount equal to, or greater than, the “put” amount, the lessee would have had a rent savings because the lessor would not need to force the lessee to buy the equipment to get its required economic return.

The right of a lessor to abandon the property is considered to be a right to require a purchase and, therefore, is also prohibited.

There is, however, some leeway. The Guidelines provide that after the equipment goes on lease the IRS may, depending on the particular facts and circumstances, permit an arrangement in which the lessor could require someone to buy the equipment.

A Word of Caution. Parties can be tempted to try to get around this rule by entering into a side agreement before the lease is closed, giving the lessor a sale right. After the equipment is placed in service, the side agreement is to be submitted to the IRS for approval as a proposed arrangement, without mention that it had been agreed to during the prohibited period. This is dangerous and clearly not recommended. Private ruling letters are granted strictly on the basis of the facts submitted in the ruling request, and if the facts actually vary from those as presented, the IRS may not adhere to the tax treatment stated.

8.​Uneven Rent Programs Must Meet Certain Tests

“Step rentals,” such as “low-high” or “high-low” rent structures, had been a valuable lessor marketing tool. Particularly attractive to lessees were rents that started low and increased during the lease’s term, for a variety of reasons, including showing higher profits in early years, anticipating inflation, or increasing cash flow.

Under the pre-Revenue Procedure 2001-28 Guidelines a taxpayer submitting a ruling request to submit certain information on any rent payment variations during the lease term. The uneven rent payments, under the initial Guidelines, did not impact the IRS’s ruling on whether the lease is a true lease. Rather, under the uneven rents could result in a portion of the uneven rent being treated as prepaid or deferred rent.

The current Guidelines, under Revenue Procedure 2001-28, state that uneven rents payments may be subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 467, and related regulations, with Internal revenue Code section 1.467-3(c)(4) providing an uneven rent test, it being specifically stated in the Guidelines whether or not the uneven rent test is met will not affect a taxpayer’s ability to obtain an advance ruling. Section 467 provides for determining how uneven rents will be treated for Federal income tax purposes.

Tax Law Observation: Section 467, was added by the 1984 Deficit Reduction Act, and may require certain lessors and lessees to accrue uneven lease rental income and deductions in a level manner. Section 467 applies to an equipment lease totaling over $250,000 in rental payments under which either (1) at least one amount is allocable to the use of property during a calendar year or (2) there are increases in the amount of rent to be paid over the lease term. Accrual will not be required where the lease payments satisfy a presumptive tax-avoidance test. Parties to a leasing transaction should review Section 467 when considering an uneven rent structure.

9.​Limited Use Property

Limited use property is property not expected to be useful to or usable by the lessor except for purposes of continued leasing or transfer to the lessee or a member of the lessee group. The IRS says this means that, at the lease term’s end, there will probably be no potential lessees or buyers other than the lessee or members of the lessee group. As a result, the lessor will probably sell or rent the property to the lessee or a member of the lessee group, so that, in effect, the lessee will receive the equipment’s ownership benefits for substantially its entire useful life. To obtain a favorable ruling, it is necessary to establish that it is commercially feasible for a party, not the lessee or a member of the lessee group, to lease or buy the property from the lessor--demonstrating that it is not limited use property.

D.​Ruling Request Submission Requirements

In submitting a ruling request, the taxpayer must present the information the Guidelines require in the manner prescribed by Revenue Procedure 2001-28, as modified by Revenue Procedure 2001-29.

Generally, all the parties to the transaction, including the lessor and the lessee, must join in the ruling request. The request must contain a summary of the surrounding facts. The request must be accompanied by certain relevant documents, such as the lease, or, in the case of a brokered transaction, any economic analysis, prospectus, or other document used to induce the lessor to invest.

Additionally, the request must include detailed information covering, for example:

•​The type and quality of the leased equipment.

•​Whether the equipment is new, reconstructed, used, or rebuilt.

•​When, how, and where the equipment will be, or was, first placed in service or use.

•​Whether the equipment will be permanently or temporarily attached to land, buildings, or other property. The flow of funds among the parties.

The request must disclose the lease term, and any renewals or extensions, and any purchase and sale options. This includes any right the lessor has to force a purchase or to abandon the equipment, and any intention to give this right in the future. If the lessee, or any related party, must pay for any cost overruns or will invest in the equipment, by, for example, contributing to its cost or paying for an improvement, modification, or addition, this must be disclosed. The request must also identify any unrelated parties who will provide funds.

Information covering any lessee related guarantees, whether the profit and positive cash flow tests have been satisfied, and any uneven rent structure must be presented. An economic analysis showing that the minimum “at risk” investment rules will be satisfied has to be submitted. A detailed description of the debt and the repayment terms; any lease provisions relating to indemnities, termination, obsolescence, casualty, or insurance; and the party who is to claim any investment credit must be set out. The request must include representations that the property is not limited use property. The parties must submit an expert’s opinion on the equipment’s residual value, setting out the manner in which the conclusion was determined, any removal or delivery costs at the end of the lease term, and the useful life of the equipment remaining at the end of the term.

E.​The Foundation Tax Rules

Two decades before issuing the initial Guidelines, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 55-540 [1955-12 CB 39] setting out the factors that it considers in deciding whether a leasing transaction is really a conditional sale for tax purposes. Unlike the Guidelines, Revenue Ruling 55-540 sets out the IRS audit position rather than dealing with what is required to obtain a ruling. The ruling is, however, much less useful than the Guidelines because it is less precise. But, by checking its tests you will help assure a leasing transaction’s viability.

In the above ruling, the IRS stated generally that whether ”an agreement, which in form is a lease, is in substance a conditional sales contract depends upon the intent of the parties as evidenced by the provisions of the agreement, read in the light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time the agreement was executed.”

In addition, it provided that in “ascertaining such intent no single test, or any special combination of tests, is absolutely determinative,” no “general rule, applicable to all cases can be laid down,” and that each “case must be decided in the light of its particular facts.” The IRS then went on to state that an intent that would cause an arrangement to be treated as a sale instead of a lease for tax purposes is found if one or more of the following factors exist:

•​Portions of the periodic payments are specifically made applicable to an equity interest to be acquired by the lessee.

•​The lessee will acquire title to the property under lease on the payment of a stated amount of “rentals” that the lessee under the contract must make.

•​The total amount that the lessee must pay for a relatively short period of use constitutes an inordinately large proportion of the total sum required to acquire title.

•​The agreed “rental” payments materially exceed the current fair rental value.

•​The property may be acquired by the lessee under a purchase option at a price that is nominal in relation to the property’s value at the time the option may be exercised (determined at the time the agreement was entered into) or which is relatively small when compared to the total payments that the lessee must make.

•​Some portion of the periodic payments is specifically designated as interest or is otherwise readily recognizable as the equivalent of interest.

Observation: Revenue Ruling 55-540 provides guidelines for determining whether a conditional sale contract exists. The assumption is that, if a conditional sales contract does not exist and the parties structured the transaction as a tax lease, everyone is on safe ground. If the transaction is structurally complex, experienced tax leasing counsel may be necessary to get adequate assurances.

F.​A Quick ‘True’ Lease Checklist

The following checklist can be used as a guide to determine whether a lease transaction’s basic features comply with the Guidelines’ requirements. If any answer is “No,” there may be a problem.

YESNO
1.Has the lessor made an initial equity investment equal to at least 20% of equipment cost?[ ][ ]
2.Is the initial equity investment unconditional in nature?[ ][ ]
3.Will the lessor’s minimum investment remain equal at least to 20% of equipment cost during the lease term?[ ][ ]
4.Is the estimated residual value of the equipment at least equal to 20% of equipment’s original cost?[ ][ ]
5.Will the useful life of the equipment remaining at the end of the lease term be equal to the longer of one year or 20% of the originally estimated useful life?[ ][ ]
6.If there is a lessee purchase option, is it at fair market value as of the time of exercise?[ ][ ]
7.Is the lessor without any rights to force a sale of the equipment to any party?[ ][ ]
8.Is the lessor without any specific right to abandon the equipment?[ ][ ]
9.Has the lessor furnished all the equipment cost other than any third-party debt?[ ][ ]
10.Will the lessor have to bear the cost of any permanent equipment improvement, modification, or addition?[ ][ ]
11.If the lessee pays for a severable improvement, could the equipment be used for its intended use without it?[ ][ ]
12.If the lessee pays for a severable improvement, can the lessor buy it only at a price at least equal to its fair market value?[ ][ ]
13.If the lessee pays for a nonseverable improvement, could the equipment be used for its intended use without the improvement?[ ][ ]
14.If the lessee pays for a nonseverable improvement, will someone other than the lessee be able to use the equipment?[ ][ ]
15.Does every nonseverable improvement that is paid for by the lessee, not constitute a lessee investment?[ ][ ]
16.Will the lessor pay for any equipment cost overruns?[ ][ ]
17.Are all the equipment loans from lenders unrelated to the lessee?[ ][ ]
18.Is the transaction devoid of any indebtedness guarantees by the lessee or related parties?[ ][ ]
19.Will the lessor make a profit on the lease without considering the tax benefits?[ ][ ]
20.Will the transaction generate a positive cash flow for the lessor?[ ][ ]
21.Will the equipment have a use at the end of the lease term to someone other than to the lessee?[ ][ ]
22.Have the required backup information and material been submitted with the request for ruling?[ ][ ]

H.​Summary

If the parties to a lease transaction intend to have the lease characterized for tax purposes as a lease, they must know the tax rules governing whether a transaction will in fact be considered by the applicable taxing authorities as a “true” lease for tax purposes. If a lease is so considered, the lessor will be deemed to be the lease asset’s owner and, thus, able to claim the available equipment ownership tax benefits. The lessee, on the other hand, will be entitled to deduct the lease rent payable as an expense of its income tax returns. Failure of the lease to so qualify, can result in an unfortunate re-arranging the tax attributes assumed to be available—and the potential of an economic loss for the lessor, and a less attractive arrangement for the lessee. To avoid this problem, the rules governing the tax chacterization must be understood. Unfortunately, doing this is often an art, because the tax rules are not always precise or clearly discernable.

c2D9

CHAPTER 7

Advantages and Risks of Leveraged Leasing Decisions

A.​What Is the Concept of Leveraged Leasing?

The leveraged lease can be one of the most complex and sophisticated vehicles for financing capital equipment in today’s financial marketplace. The individuals and firms in the leveraged leasing industry are aggressive and creative. As a result, the environment is one of innovation and intense competition.

Is the concept of a leveraged lease complex? Not really. It is simply a lease transaction in which the lessor puts in only a portion, usually 20% to 40%, of the funds necessary to buy the equipment and a third-party lender supplies the remainder. Because the benefits available to the lessor are generally based on the entire equipment cost, the lessor’s investment is said to be “leveraged” with third-party debt.

Generally, the third-party loan is on a nonrecourse-to-the-lessor basis and ranges from 60% to 80% of the equipment’s cost. The nonrecourse nature means the lender can only look to the lessee, the stream of rental payments that have been assigned to it, and the equipment for repayment. The lessor has no repayment responsibility even if the lessee defaults and the loan becomes uncollectible.

The fact that a nonrecourse lender cannot look to the lessor for the loan repayment if there is a problem is not as bad as it seems for two reasons:

•​The lender will not make a nonrecourse loan unless the lessee is considered creditworthy, and,

•​The lender’s rights to any proceeds coming from a sale or re-release of the equipment comes ahead of any of the lessor’s rights in the equipment and lease.

The lessor’s equity investment is subordinated to the loan repayment obligation. If a lender only contributed, for example, 70% of the funds necessary, the subordination arrangement would put it in an over-collateralized loan position that, in turn, would decrease its lending risk.

Although the third-party loan is usually made on a nonrecourse basis, this is not always so. If the lessee’s financial condition is weak, a lender may only be willing to make a recourse loan. Under this type of loan the lender can look to, or has recourse against, the lessor for repayment if it cannot be satisfied through the lessee or the equipment. The lessor still, however, has the economic advantage of a leveraged investment.

Although the concept of leveraging a lease investment is simple, the mechanics of putting one together is often complex. Leveraged lease transactions, particularly ones involving major dollar commitments, frequently involve many parties brought together through intricate arrangements. The “lessor” is typically a group of investors joined together by a partnership or trust structure. The partnership or trust is the legal owner, or “titleholder,” of the equipment. The “lender” is often a group of lenders usually acting through a trust arrangement. This is further complicated by the fact that each participant will be represented by counsel with varying views. As a result, the job of organizing, drafting, and negotiating the necessary documents is generally very difficult.

Observation: Because the expenses involved in documenting a leveraged lease can be substantial, transactions involving less than $2 million worth of equipment can be economically difficult to structure as a leveraged lease. If, however, documentation fees (such as counsel fees) can be kept within reason, smaller equipment amounts can be financed in this manner. In many cases a prospective lessor or underwriter has an in-house legal staff with the ability to originate and negotiate the required documents. If so, this will help keep costs down.

Generally, leveraged lease financings are arranged for prospective lessees by companies or individuals who specialize in structuring and negotiating these types of leases. These individuals and firms are referred to as lease underwriters. Essentially, their function is to structure the lease economics, find the lessor-investors, and provide the necessary expertise to ensure that the transaction will get done. In a limited number of situations, they also find the debt participants. They do not generally participate as an investor in the equipment. Because the vast majority of leveraged leases are brought about with the assistance of lease underwriters, lease underwriting has become synonymous with leveraged leasing.

The premise on which lease underwriting services are provided by an underwriter (that is, on a “best efforts” or “firm” basis) varies significantly. It is, therefore, worthwhile at this stage to explore the two types of underwriter offers: “best efforts” and “firm commitment” underwriting arrangements.

1.​A ‘Best Efforts’ Underwriting Arrangement Can Be Risky

Lease underwriting transactions are frequently bid on a “best efforts” basis. This type of bid is an offer by the underwriter to do the best it can to put a transaction together under the terms set out in its proposal letter. There are no guarantees of performance. As a result, a prospective lessee accepting the offer may not know for some time whether it has the financing.

In practice, a best efforts underwriting is not as risky as it appears. Most reputable underwriters have a good feel for the market when bidding on this basis and usually can deliver what they propose. Thus, there is a good chance they will be able to get “firm commitments” from one or more prospective lessor-investors to participate on the basis offered.

Recommendations:

•​A prospective lessee must always keep in mind that a best efforts underwriting proposal gives no guarantee the transaction can be completed under the terms proposed. Thus, it must give careful consideration to the experience and reputation of an underwriter proposing on this basis before awarding a transaction to it. An inability to perform as presented can result in the loss of valuable time.

•​When there is adequate equipment delivery lead time, a prospective lessee may be inclined to award a transaction to an unknown underwriter who has submitted an unusually low bid. There is, however, a risk that must be considered. If the transaction is so underpriced that it cannot be sold in the “equity” market, it may meet resistance when it is reoffered on more attractive investor terms. This can happen merely because it has been seen, or “shopped,” too much. It is an unfortunate fact that when an investor is presented with a transaction that it knows has been shopped, even if the terms are favorable, it may refuse to consider it. A prospective lessee, thus, should not be too eager to accept a “low ball” best efforts bid unless it has taken a hard look at the underwriter’s ability to perform.

•​Best efforts underwriters sometimes submit proposals that are substantially below the market. At times this happens by mistake. For example, transactions may have been priced in good faith based on acceptable investor market yields, but by the time the award is made the market has moved upward. At other times, an underwriter may intentionally underprice a transaction to make sure it wins it. If it cannot be placed as proposed, the underwriter will go back and attempt to get the prospective lessee to agree to a higher rental rate. With its competitors no longer involved, it may be in a good position to do this. A prospective lessee with near-term deliveries must be particularly careful in recognizing this possibility. Otherwise, it may have little choice but to be pushed into a less favorable deal.

•​A prospective lessee can control the risk of nonperformance under a best efforts proposal by putting a time limit on the award, for example, by requiring the underwriter to come up with, or “circle,” interested parties within one week following the award and securing formal commitments by the second week.

It is not unheard of for a prospective lessee to make a time limit award to an unusually low bidding, or unknown, underwriter without telling the remaining bidders. The purpose is to try to keep them around just in case the underwriter cannot perform. This can be unfair to an underwriter who, in good faith, is continuing to spend time and money on the transaction in the hope of winning it. Doing this can also hurt a prospective lessee in the long run. Reason: It is likely that the other underwriters will find out that this happened. Once the word gets around that a company does business in this manner, reputable underwriters may refuse to participate in future biddings. Even if they do participate, they may quote rates that have not been as finely tuned as possible. Reason: They will not spend the time or money necessary in situations in which they may not be treated fairly. Thus, this tactic is not recommended because a prospective lessee may, as a result, not see the best possible market rates.

2.​A ‘Firm Commitment’ Underwriting Arrangement Is Often the Best

From a prospective lessee’s viewpoint, a “firm commitment” underwriting proposal is generally the preferred type of offer. When an underwriter has “come in firm” it is guaranteeing to put the proposed lease financing together. Typically, before an underwriter submits this type of proposal, it has solid commitments from lessor-investors to enter into the transaction on the terms presented. This, however, is not always the case. The underwriter’s firm bid may only represent its willingness to be the lessor if it cannot find a third-party lessor.

Recommendations:

•​If an underwriter proposing on a firm basis does not have “committed equity” at the time its proposal is submitted, a prospective lessee may be subject to certain risks. Unless the underwriter is in a strong financial position, its commitment may be worthless if a third-party lessor cannot be found. Thus, a prospective lessee must always investigate whether an underwriter has lined up one or more lessor-investors. If not, the underwriter’s financial condition must be reviewed to determine, before making the award, whether it has the financial ability to stand behind it.

•​Underwriters sometimes state they have firm “equity” even though they have nothing more than a verbal indication from a prospective lessor-investor’s contact that it will recommend the transaction to its approving committee. Thus, a prospective lessee must ask to be put in touch with each lessor-investor to confirm its position. Doing this will also ensure that there are no misunderstandings as to the transaction terms.

B.​Leveraged Lease Participants Have Unique Characteristics

Generally, a leveraged lease transaction will involve more parties than a nonleveraged one. At a minimum, the participants will include an equity participant (lessor-investor), a debt participant, a lessee, and an equipment supplier. In the event the equity or debt participant acts through a trust arrangement, a trustee will also be a party. Often, these participants have certain unique characteristics.

1.​The Equity Participants

An investor in a leveraged lease is referred to as an “equity participant.” Generally, more than one investor is involved on the “equity side” of a leveraged lease. These equity participants, or owners, often act together through a trust arrangement. A trust provides partnership-like tax treatment, while at the same time giving corporate-like liability protection. The equity participants are deemed the beneficial owners of the equipment. Legal title is held by the representative (the trustee) of the trust.

It is possible when more than one lessor-investor is involved for them to act through a partnership arrangement, rather than a trust. Here, the partnership is the lessor. Legal title to the equipment is held in the partnership name.

Recommendation: The actual form of equipment owning entity, (that is, trust or partnership), will depend on the particular needs of each transaction and the participants. Counsel must be used to select the best form for a particular situation.

The typical leveraged lease equity participant is an “institutional investor.” Banks, for example, come within this category. Because, however, a leveraged lease can be an attractive investment, many “regular” corporations and, in a limited number of situations, wealthy individuals are also potential lessor-investor candidates.

Some prospective leveraged lease investors have their own leasing companies actively looking for lease investment opportunities. But many do not. Those that do not, often referred to as “passive” investors, usually rely exclusively on the lease underwriting community to locate leveraged lease investments for them. Typically, the passive type investor also depends heavily on underwriters for advice on the structure and documentation of these investments.

2.​The Lessee

A leveraged lease transaction, as with any lease transaction, does not begin to come into existence until an equipment user, the prospective lessee, decides to consider leasing as a way to finance the acquisition of equipment it needs. Thus, the lessee is the key participant in any lease financing.

Because documenting a leveraged lease transaction tends to be expensive, this type of lease usually makes economic sense only for financings involving a significant dollar amount of equipment. As a result, the type of potential lessee is usually a large equipment user who has the financial strength to support the obligations involved.

3.​The Debt Participants

A lender in a leveraged lease transaction is generally referred to as a “debt participant.” It is common for there to be more than one debt participant involved in a particular lease. When this is the case, they frequently form a trust through which they will act. The document setting out the trust’s terms is referred to as the trust indenture. The amount of money each debt participant intends to loan is transferred to the trust, which in turn lends it to the lessor. The loan made to the lessor is generally nonrecourse in nature. The loan is represented by a note or series of notes payable over the lease term from the rent proceeds the lessor receives.

If properly organized, the lender’s trust will receive partnership-like income tax treatment and corporate-like liability protection. Each participant, as a beneficial owner of the trust estate, is treated for income tax purposes as though it made its loan directly to the lessor and will not have a direct exposure to any third-party claim.

Leveraged lease third-party debt is often supplied by banks or insurance companies. However, because a leveraged lease loan is no different from any other loan secured by personal property, generally any lender able and willing to make a secured loan is a potential loan source. There is, however, one limiting factor--the prospective lender’s ability to offer competitive market interest rates. The debt interest rate is a critical factor in the rent computation. A leveraged lease rent quotation is usually premised on an assumed debt interest rate. Thus, the lower the interest rate the more profit a lessor makes and vice versa. This is so, unless the prospective lessee gets the benefit or bears the risk of interest rate variations. In the latter case the underwriter’s proposal will provide that if the debt interest rate comes in other than assumed, the rent will be adjusted upward or downward to appropriately reflect the variance. As a result only the most rate aggressive lenders (such as, banks and insurance companies) are usually able to compete, particularly in the better credit transactions.

4.​The Underwriter

The lease underwriting business has a relatively low capital entrance requirement. Because of this there is an overabundance of “packagers” offering lease underwriting services. These packagers run the gamut from individuals operating out of a home office to investment bankers to specialized lease underwriting firms. Some are well versed in leveraged leasing economics and documentation and others know little more than the basics. The choice of an underwriter is critical to the success of a transaction. Those who have a solid understanding of the business and who are continually active in the underwriting market are more likely to be able to better structure and ensure leveraged lease financing success.

Recommendation: Prospective lessees entertaining leveraged lease proposals must make sure before awarding a transaction that the intended underwriter has the qualifications to do the job necessary, both from an experience and a technical standpoint.

5.​The Equipment Manufacturer

The equipment manufacturer or distributor involved in a leveraged lease transaction usually does nothing more than sell the agreed on equipment to the lessor at the negotiated price. Once the full price has been paid, its only obligation is to stand behind its product for any warranty period.

In some situations, the vendor’s role is not limited to merely selling the equipment to the lessor. It sometimes provides various inducements to a lessor to assist in selling its equipment. For example, it may be willing to guarantee some of the lessee’s lease obligations in situations when the lessee’s financial condition is weak.

6.​The Investor’s Representative-The Owner’s Trustee

In the event equity participants act through a trust, a trustee will be appointed to be the trust’s representative. The trustee is sometimes referred to as the owner’s trustee and is usually a commercial bank or trust company.

The owner’s trustee is considered the mechanical arm of the trust. Reason: The trust arrangement specifically defines the trustee’s responsibilities. For example, one of its prescribed duties will be to divide up and disburse the lease funds among the various equity participants under a predetermined formula. As the equity participants’ representative, it makes sure their investment is protected by monitoring their rights under the lease.

7.​The Lender’s Representative-The Indenture Trustee

When a trust arrangement is established for the debt participants, a trustee, referred to as the indenture trustee, is employed to represent the trust. The trust agreement clearly defines the indenture trustee’s duties. For example, the indenture trustee collects the money to be loaned from the debt participants and then turns it over to the lessor. As a part of the loan transaction, the indenture trustee takes an assignment of the lease and a security interest in the equipment as security for the loan repayment. Typically, a commercial bank or trust company is selected to act as the indenture trustee.

C.​How Different Is the Leveraged Lease Document?

The format of a typical leveraged lease document is essentially the same as that of any other equipment lease. However, the terms and provisions are usually more detailed. Reason: The major dollar commitments involved usually dictate that greater attention be paid to each aspect.

What about the collateral, or supplemental, documents? There are typically a greater number involved in a leveraged lease transaction than in a “straight” lease transaction. For example, in addition to those found in nonleveraged lease situations, such as the lease, opinions of counsel, and board of director resolutions, the leveraged transaction documentation will at a minimum usually include trust agreements, a participation agreement, one or more promissory notes, and a security and loan agreement.

D.​Three Advantages to the Lessee in a Leveraged Lease

In certain situations, a leveraged lease transaction offers many benefits for a prospective lessee. It may in some cases be the only economically viable approach to take.

1.​The Rent Can Be More Attractive

As a rule of thumb a competitively bid leveraged lease transaction will provide a lower cost to a lessee than a comparable term nonleveraged lease. Logically, if a company can borrow at a more favorable interest rate than a lessor, it stands to reason that if the lessor pays part of the equipment’s cost with a loan based on the lessee’s credit it can charge lower rents without sacrificing its economic return. There are, of course, exceptions to this rule, and each situation must be examined on its own. For example, if the dollar amount of equipment financed is small, the documentation expenses involved can offset the economic benefits gained through leveraging.

2.​There Is a Better Market for Large Transactions

Major dollar equipment lease financings can generally be arranged more readily by using a leveraged lease structure. This is because a lessor-investor only has to come up with a portion of the required equipment, the remainder being provided by a third-party lender.

Because many investors and lenders are unwilling to make a major dollar investment in one transaction, a number of lessor-investors and lenders must frequently be brought together. By forming investor and lender syndicates, they can keep the dollar exposure for each within desired limits.

Bringing together more than one investor and lender can be beneficial for a lessee. When the investment risk is spread among a greater number of participants, there is a better likelihood that a large dollar lease financing can be done at more reasonable rates. No one party has such a great exposure that it believes it must charge a premium for the risk. The disadvantage is the added paperwork. However, a competent and experienced underwriter will be able to successfully usher everyone through the documentation tangle--a reason why the choice of the underwriter is a critical factor.

Observation: There are a small number of prospective lessor-investors willing to act as the sole equity participant in major equipment lease financings. The advantage to using such an investor is that the necessary approvals and potential complications will be kept to a minimum. Generally, however, this type of investor realizes not many others are willing to take an entire major transaction and their rent charge will usually be high. Whether the extra rate is worth the reduced risks of a simpler transaction is a matter of judgment. An experienced underwriter should be of great assistance in evaluating the tradeoff.

3.​The Lessors Can Be More Competitive

The type of lessor interested in pursuing a leveraged lease investment is often most concerned over the available equipment ownership tax benefits. As a result, such a lessor may be more willing to be more aggressive on those aspects of a lease transaction not impacting the lease’s tax consequences.

E.​Investment Pitfalls and Recommendations for Prospective Lessors

A prospective lessor must consider many factors before deciding whether to enter into a particular lease transaction, leveraged or not. These considerations, however, are particularly crucial for leveraged lease investors. Reason: The transactions are typically very competitive and the investment economics finely tuned. A slight mistake or change in the investment assumptions, thus, can have a major adverse impact.

For a prospective lessor-investor to evaluate the risks involved, it must know what they are. The following explanation will alert the reader to the fundamental points that must be considered by every lease investor.

1.​Equipment Delivery Delays Can Destroy Profits

The date when the equipment is delivered determines when the ownership tax benefits will be available to a lessor, When these benefits are available is a critical factor in a prospective lessor’s analysis of its anticipated economic return. An unexpected delivery delay can have a serious negative impact. Consider, for example, a transaction entered into by a calendar year taxpayer-investor based on the assumption that the equipment will be delivered no later than the end of the current year. A following year delivery could jeopardize its contemplated return. Reason: The equipment ownership tax benefits would not be available until the next year. If the transaction had been priced in a competitive market, that slippage could easily make the transaction’s economics completely unacceptable to the investor.

Recommendations:

•​A prospective lessor-investor can protect itself against a potential yield deterioration because of equipment delivery delays in two ways. The first is by establishing a commitment cutoff date. That is, setting a point in time after which it will no longer be obligated to buy and lease delivering equipment. A second way is to provide for a rent adjustment that preserves the transaction’s economics if a certain delivery date is passed.

•​From a lessee’s viewpoint, either of the lessor delivery delay solutions explained in the above Recommendation can create problems. The first solution, however, is generally considered the more dangerous. When a delivery cutoff date is imposed, a prospective lessee could end up without a lease financing source for the late equipment. When a rental adjustment is permitted, a lessee may be confronted with an undesirably high rent. In the latter situation, however, it at least knows that lease financing will be available regardless of the delay.

•​A prospective lessor should it careful when establishing the rental adjustment criterion to apply to equipment delivered late. For example, if the rental analysis is based on certain yield and after-tax cash flow standards, the prospective lessor should make sure the adjustment provision will permit it to maintain both criteria because they will not run parallel. In other words, maintaining yield will not necessarily maintain after-tax cash flows and vice versa.

2.​The Lessee’s Financial Condition Is Crucial

The financial strength of a prospective lessee is an important lessor consideration in any lease transaction. It should be of prime concern to a passive type lessor-investor with limited equipment knowledge and remarketing capability. A lease default could easily endanger its invested capital and anticipated economic return. It is of utmost importance, therefore, for the prospective lessee’s financial standing to be thoroughly reviewed.

3.​Changes in Tax Law Can Eliminate Profits

If the tax benefits anticipated by investing in an equipment lease are eliminated or reduced because of a change in tax law, a lessor-investor could be confronted with an extremely unfavorable investment. The possibility of a tax law change is difficult, if not impossible, to predict. It is not, however, generally considered an unreasonable risk to assume in certain situations.

In major leveraged leases, lessees are sometimes “forced” to indemnify the lessor against any adverse change in the tax law that causes loss of a tax benefit. The tax indemnification provisions are usually incorporated directly in the lease agreement.

Observations:

•​Prospective lessees have become increasingly successful in placing the tax benefit loss risks from changes in law on the lessor. It usually depends on who has the most negotiating strength. A favorite lessee argument is that the burden properly belongs on the lessor. Reason: The prospective lessor is better able to assess them through its experience. The argument has some validity as to “regular” leasing companies. It may not be true, however, as far as the typical leveraged lease investor is concerned. In its passive role it may not have the type of exposure necessary to make the appropriate evaluation.

•​A prospective lessor-investor can hedge against the change-in-tax-law risk by having the right to appropriately adjust the rental rate or to exclude equipment that will be affected and that has not yet been delivered. The danger to a prospective lessee with these lessor solutions is that it may have to pay too high a lease rate or may be without financing at the last minute.

4.​Income Variations Can Be Dangerous

A typical leveraged lease transaction may not be economically viable for a lessor-investor unless it can use all of the available equipment ownership tax benefits in a timely manner. If the investor had, for example, an unexpected net loss for the year the equipment was placed in service, it would have no taxable income against which to apply the tax benefits. The inability to use the tax benefits when anticipated would reduce the transaction’s expected time value return. The time value concept says $1 received today is worth more than $1 received a year from today because of its earning capability. Thus, a lease investment must be looked at by a prospective lessor-investor in light of a careful and realistic appraisal of its present and future earning situation.

5.​Tax Rate Variations-Consider the Possibility

How valuable the tax benefits that are available from owning equipment are to a lessor-investor depends to a large extent on its overall effective income tax rate. The greater its effective tax rate the more tax savings it will realize from the tax benefits. Any decrease in its tax rate will reduce the favorable impact of the available write-offs. Thus, a prospective lessor-investor must consider any potential income tax rate change in light of the future tax benefits coming from a lease investment.

Observation: A prospective lessor-investor can protect itself against an adverse tax rate change by getting the prospective lessee to agree to indemnify it in the event it occurs. In today’s market, however, it is unlikely that any prospective lessee would agree to provide this type of indemnity.

6.​Incorrect Residual Value Assessment-An Easy Trap

Generally, the value of the equipment at the end of a lease, referred to as its “residual value,” can have a dramatic impact on the profitability of the transaction. If a prospective lessor’s residual value estimate is too high when it analyzes a lease investment, its return will be adversely affected. For example, if a prospective investor makes its investment analysis assuming a certain return based on selling the equipment at the end of the lease for 20% of its original cost, the transaction’s profitability is reduced if the equipment sells for only 5% of its original cost. The overall effect of the diminished value depends on its importance in the investor’s analysis. Very often it is a significant factor.

Recommendation: It is advisable for a prospective lessor-investor to consult an equipment appraiser for assistance in making a reasonable residual value estimate. Remember, however, that an appraiser’s opinion as to future value is nothing more than a professional guess. It does not assure the investor of the equipment’s future worth. It does, of course, provide a degree of comfort that would otherwise not exist.

7.​An Early Lease Termination Must Be Considered

A prospective lessor-investor must make sure that a permitted early lease termination will have little, if any, impact on its lease investment economics. Consider, for example, a 20-year full payout lease that is terminated at the end of 2 years. To begin with, the investor’s future lease profits will be cut off. Depending on how the rents have been reported for income purposes, an early termination can cause a “book” loss. For example, if the rent income was reported faster than actually received the early termination might make it necessary to report as a loss the difference between what was reported on the income statement and what has actually been taken in.

If the equipment cannot be favorably re-leased in a timely manner, the lessor may be forced to sell the equipment immediately. An unplanned sale situation can make it difficult for a lessor to realize the best price. This is particularly so if large amounts of equipment scattered all over the country are involved. Having adequate and inexpensive storage space can ease the problem. Reason: The lessor may be better able to afford to wait the market out. Lessors sometimes negotiate the right to store it on the lessee’s premises free of charge. However, this may not be a good solution if the parties are in an adversary situation.

Having to sell equipment early may also create another problem--a recapture of tax benefits claimed. If the tax benefits are an important part of the lessor’s yield, a recapture can further destroy the already faltering lease economics.

Incorporating a “termination value” concept into the lease can solve the early termination economic and tax recapture risks. Essentially a termination value is an amount a lessee would be obligated to pay to the lessor to help protect its investment and anticipated return.

8.​Casualty Loss-Are There Protections?

The types of problems confronting a lessor if there is an equipment casualty loss are similar to those that must be addressed if a lease termination occurs, that is, future profits will be unavailable, tax benefit recapture may result, and a “book” loss may have to be reported. There is, however, an important difference--the equipment will have little, if any, value. When a casualty loss occurs, therefore, the lessor is left without its collateral protection and must look to the lessee and any insurance proceeds for loss repayment. This is a good reason why prospective lessor-investors must make sure that the lessee is a creditworthy entity and, also, that adequate insurance is secured and maintained.

Recommendation: If a prospective lessee will be obligated to insure the leased equipment, the prospective lessor should require evidence at the time of the lease closing that the appropriate insurance coverage has been secured. Also, arrangements should be made for the insurance company to notify the lessor if the lessee does anything, such as neglecting to pay the premiums, that could cause the policy to lapse. In this way, the lessor will have the opportunity of taking over any lapsed obligations to assure continued coverage.

Even though the lessee must maintain casualty loss insurance, prospective lessors should also incorporate a “casualty loss value” concept. Casualty values, sometimes referred to as “stipulated loss values,” are calculated in much the same manner as termination values. Their purpose is to protect the lessor’s investment position in the event of a casualty loss. Under this concept, the lessee in effect guarantees that the lessor will receive a certain amount of money if there is an equipment casualty. The amount decreases after each rent payment is made, to reflect an appropriate recognition of the lessor’s decreased financial exposure. It typically will be sufficient to repay the lessor’s outstanding investment and any remaining equipment loan obligations. Also, it will provide the lessor with its profit, at least to the date of the loss. Typically, the lessee is given a credit for any insurance money received as a result of the loss against the amount owed. In effect, the lessee becomes an insurer of the lessor’s investment and profit.

9.​The Economic Analysis-A Critical Aspect

When a lease underwriter presents a lease investment to a prospective lessor-investor, it generally submits an economic analysis showing the return the investor can expect. If the method of analysis is incorrect, or unrealistic, a prospective investor can end up with a disastrous investment. It is not uncommon, for example, for an underwriter to incorporate a sinking fund arrangement in its analysis calculations. The sinking fund simply improves the investor’s economics by assuming that cash available over the lease term will earn a certain amount of interest. If for some reason the interest rate assumption is too high, the return analysis will be misleading. Thus, a prospective investor must always verify any economic presentation on which it intends to base its investment decision.

Recommendation: If a prospective lessor-investor cannot independently analyze the resulting economics of investing in a lease submitted by an underwriter, it should bring in an independent expert to review the presentation.

10. A Long Term Commitment Can Present a Problem

Frequently, an equipment lease agreement is entered into well before the equipment actually delivers. This is done for a number of reasons. From a lessor’s viewpoint, the faster it gets the lease “signed up,” the less risk there will be that the prospective lessee will change its mind. Prospective lessees are generally interested in proceeding as quickly as possible as well--to avoid last minute documentation problems.

When a lease agreement is signed well in advance of equipment delivery, particularly if it calls for the lessor to hold a substantial amount of money available, an unexpected decision by the lessee not to lease the equipment when it arrives will result in an alternate investment opportunity loss for the lessor during the commitment period. To avoid this risk, prospective lessors frequently require prospective lessees to agree to pay commitment fees (a fixed fee amount) or nonutilization fees (fees that are charged to the extent lessor funds are not used). These fees guarantee that they will be compensated for holding funds available.

11. Documentation Expenses Can Ruin a Lease Investment

Expenses, such as legal fees, involved in documenting a lease transaction can be substantial. Depending on the transaction’s complexity, it is not unheard of for the expenses to run into the hundreds of thousands of dollars. A $30,000 expense for a $3 million lease investment may be acceptable, a $500,000 expense will probably not be. If an investor must pay these expenses, a substantial bill could ruin its investment economics. Thus, it is essential for a prospective lease investor to know who is responsible for the various charges and what the estimated amounts will be. Of particular concern will be who is responsible for the expenses if the transaction falls apart before the lease is signed.

Recommendations:

•​In an underwritten leveraged lease transaction, the responsibility for the various documentation expenses is frequently outlined in the underwriter’s proposal letter. In many cases, the underwriter will offer to pay most of the expenses. It is, however, an area of negotiation between the parties. A prospective investor must make sure it has not inadvertently assumed any expense responsibility that has not been considered. The more the expense burden can be shifted to someone else, the less the risk the economic integrity of the investment will be endangered.

•​Frequently, a lease underwriter will place the burden for expenses incurred in a collapsed lease transaction on the prospective lessee. It is recommended, however, that a prospective lessee at least require a sharing of the expenses with any other party contributing to the failure.

F.​A Checklist for the Leveraged Lease Investor

Before making a commitment to invest in a leveraged lease, a prospective lessor-investor must consider the following points:

If the equipment will not be put on lease at the time the lease commitment is signed, does it matter when the equipment actually delivers? If so:

•​Does the lease agreement provide for a cutoff date beyond which the lessor will not be obligated to buy and lease the equipment?

•​If there is not an equipment delivery cutoff date, does the lease permit the lessor to appropriately adjust the rents if its economics are affected?

•​Can the lessee substitute equipment if specific equipment delivers late or never arrives? If so, are there controls on the type that will be acceptable?

Has the prospective lessee’s financial condition been thoroughly reviewed?

If any credit support for the lessee’s lease obligations will be provided, has the financial condition of the supporting party been carefully reviewed?

Has tax counsel been consulted as to any near-term possibility of the tax laws changing so as to affect the anticipated equipment ownership tax benefits?

In the event there is a tax law change affecting the equipment ownership tax benefits, will the lessee have to indemnify the lessor for any resulting adverse effect?

Can the entire future tax benefits generated by a lease investment be used? That is, will the lessor’s taxable income be sufficient to cover the available write-offs?

Has tax counsel been consulted as to any future federal income tax rate changes? If there is a change adversely affecting the leased equipment, who must bear the burden?

Is the residual value of the equipment an important factor in the lessor’s economic analysis? If so:

•​Has it been properly assessed?

•​Has a qualified equipment appraiser been consulted?

Will the lessor’s economics be protected if there is an early lease termination?

•​If it results from a lease default?

•​If it results from a permitted termination?

If a termination value concept has been incorporated to protect a lessor’s investment position, have the values been verified?

Will the lessor’s investment position be protected if there is an equipment casualty loss?

•​If a stipulated loss value (also referred to as casualty loss value) concept has been incorporated in the lease, has each value been verified?

Will an underwriter’s economic analysis of a proposed lease investment be relied on? If so:

•​Has it been independently checked?

•​Are all the investment criteria assumptions, such as sinking fund interest rate, realistic from the prospective lessor’s standpoint?

Must the prospective lessor make a long-term commitment to buy and lease equipment? If so will the lessee be able to decide at the last minute not to lease the equipment without a penalty? If not, has a proper commitment fee or nonutilization fee been incorporated?

Have the expenses for documenting the lease and the responsibility for payment been clearly defined

•​If the transaction actually goes through?

•​If the transaction collapses before the lease documents are signed?

G.​Summary

A leveraged lease is typically a complex and sophisticated vehicle for financing capital equipment. The basic concept, however, is not complex--it is simply a lease transaction in which the lessor puts in only a portion, usually 20% to 40%, of the funds necessary to buy the equipment and a third-party lender supplies the remainder. Generally, the third-party loan is on a nonrecourse-to-the-lessor basis and ranges from 60% to 80% of the equipment’s cost. The nonrecourse nature means the lessor has no repayment responsibility even if the lessee defaults and the loan becomes uncollectible. Having said that, it must be kept in mind that the mechanics of putting a leveraged lease transaction together is generally complex, often involving many parties brought together through intricate document arrangements. The complexity, however, is offset by the transaction structure benefits to both the lessor and the lessee.

c2HZ

CHAPTER 8

Financial Analysis of Leases

A.​Overview

While, as described in Chapter 1, there are a variety of factors to be considered when a prospective lessee or lessor decides whether to enter into an equipment lease, the lease’s financial consequences are always important, and often decisive. A prospective lessee, thus, should not choose to lease before making a financial comparison with the other available methods of financing the equipment’s acquisition. The extent of the analysis will, of course, depend on how significant the commitment will be. Similarly, a prospective lessor should not commit to a lease until it has been reviewed for investment soundness.

This chapter explains the financial concepts involved in the analysis of a finance lease, both from a prospective lessee’s and a prospective lessor’s viewpoint. While not exploring every possible method of financial lease analysis, the explanation provides the reader with a concise foundation in lessee and lessor financial lease analysis.

B.​The Importance of Cash Flow and Timing for a Lessee

In making a financial assessment of whether to lease or buy equipment, a prospective lessee must take the varying cash flows, and their timing, into account for each alternative. Stated simply, how much are the cash inflows and outflows, and when do they occur? The timing of the cash inflows and outflows is critical because of the principle--referred to as the time value of money--that money received earlier is worth more than money later received.

The following example illustrates very simplistically how taking cash flow and its timing into account alters the result of an analysis.

Illustrative Example--Cash Flow and Time Value: An equipment user is considering two options: Leasing equipment over a seven-year period with an annual rent of $990 payable at the beginning of each year; and buying the equipment using a seven-year loan with $1,000 annual payments due at each year’s end. By choosing to lease, the company would pay out $990 one year earlier than it would have to pay the required $1,000 loan payment. If the company could earn, say, 6% a year after taxes on its available funds, giving up the $990 in advance would result in a “loss” of $59.40 (6% X $990=$59.40) the first year. In this case, the advance payment could be said to cost $1,049.40 ($990+$59.40=$1 049.40). Putting other considerations aside, the $1,000 loan payment would have been less expensive. If the company were able to earn only 1% a year after taxes, paying the $990 would result in only a $9.90 “loss” (1 % X $990=$9.90). That is, the effective cost of paying the $990 would have been $990.90, instead of $1,049.40. In the latter case, the $1,000 loan payment could be said to be more expensive.

C.​The Prospective Lessee’s Analysis

Once a company has decided it needs certain equipment, it must determine how to finance its acquisition. The following discussion will address three alternatives:

•​The user leases the equipment (the Leasing Alternative).

•​The user draws on its general funds to buy the equipment (the Purchase Alternative).

•​The user takes out a specific loan to buy the equipment (the Financing Alternative).

This section will compare those three financial alternatives by using a common method for taking cash flows and their timing into account, sometimes referred to as the discounted cash flow--or present value--analysis method. The first step will be to compute the periodic costs and tax savings for each alternative. The next step will be to factor in the timing of those cash flows so there is a basis for comparison by calculating the present value of each alternative’s cash flows. To compute the present value of a series of future cash flows, an interest rate--referred to as the discount rate--must be selected to discount the flows back to their present worth. The result will be the present value cost of the alternatives.

Because getting to these results involves many computations, the analysis below will center around one hypothetical equipment acquisition situation.

Note: The financial analysis computations from which the examples in this chapter were developed were done on SuperTRUMP, a lease analysis computer software program, by Ivory Consulting Corporation, Orinda, California. The information from the computer analysis results was at times summarized by the author to aid in the explanation of the concepts described in the text material.

1.​A Typical Equipment User’s Financial Alternatives

White Industries wants to acquire a new computer and can use all available tax benefits. White is considering three financing alternatives--the Lease Alternative, the Purchase Alternative, and the Financing Alternative. Additional facts include (assumed for ease of illustration without regard to whether any applicable tax or other rules will be satisfied):

General Data

Computer Cost$1 million
Depreciable period5 years
Residual value$0
Accounting basis:Accrual
White Industries income tax rate35%
White Industries tax yearCalendar year
Delivery dateJanuary 1, 2016
Depreciation methodMACRS (Half-Year, DB/SL 200%)

Proposed Financial Lease

Lease term7 years
Rental payments$200,000, payable in 7 annual payments in arrears.
Lease simple interest rate9.1961%
Commencement dateJanuary 1, 2016

Proposed Bank Loan

Loan amount$1 million, repayable in 7 equal annual payments of $205,405.50 in arrears,
Loan term7 years
Long term interest rate10.0%
Commencement dateJanuary 1, 2016

2.​The Cost of the Leasing Alternative

The first step is to compute the after-tax cost of the various alternatives, Table 9-1 sets out those costs, for the Leasing Alternative.

Table 9-1 is computed as follows:

•​The Rental Payments are the annual payments the lessee must make. These begin in 2017 because the rent is payable in arrears.

•​The Tax Savings From Rent Deductions represents the federal income tax savings White Industries would realize from the rent deductions, computed at White Industries’ assumed 35% bracket.

•​The After-tax Cost is derived by subtracting the Tax Savings from the Rent Deductions from the Rental Payments.

•​The Cumulative After-tax Cost represents the transaction’s total after-tax cost as of each year end.

The result is a total after-tax cost of $910,000, if White Industries leases the computer.

3.​The Cost of the Purchase Alternative

The next step is to compute the after-tax cost of an outright purchase using internal funds. The Annual Depreciation Expense indicated in Table 9-2 below is the amount White Industries would be entitled to deduct under MACRS as the computer owner over a five-year period. The other columns are computed as in the leasing example (Table 9-1):

4.​Comparing Cash Flows

Thus, at this point in the analysis, the Purchase Alternative seems substantially less expensive than the Lease Alternatives as its total after-tax Cost is only $650,000 compared with $910,000 for leasing. However, this ignores the leasing cash flow advantage because, as shown in Table 9-3, the total cost of the lease is less until the seventh year.

Plainly, leasing does conserve money in the early years, and those available funds could be put to use elsewhere. The resulting earnings on those funds would offset the disparity in total cost between the two alternatives. Thus, it cannot be concluded that leasing is more expensive until the present value of the two alternative’s cash flows is compared.

To calculate the present value of the leasing and buying cash flows, White Industries must discount both alternatives’ cash flows to their present worth. Choosing a 10% annual discount rate and assuming White Industries pays its estimated taxes on April 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each year, the after-tax cash flows for the Leasing and Purchase Alternatives are as follows as shown in Table 9-4:

The discounted cash flow analysis clearly reverses the outcome. The Leasing Alternative’s present worth is $611,253.72, while the Purchase Alternative’s is $720,947.55. Based on this analysis, leasing the computer would be less expensive than buying with internal funds,

5.​The Financing Alternative

The next step is to calculate the Financing Alternative’s cash flow in the same manner, The computation is the same as the Purchase Alternative (Table 9-2) with the additional factors being the payment of the 10.0% interest and the tax savings on deducting the interest. The after-tax cost calculations are as follows as shown in Table 9-5:

The present worth calculation, again using a 10% discount rate, results in the following (again assuming estimated federal income tax payments are made on April 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each tax year) as shown in Table 9-6:

6.​Cash Flows Comparisons

As Table 9-6 shows, the Financial Alternative results in a present value cost of ($598,599.23), the least expensive of the three alternatives, This result is not intended to mean that financing with borrowed funds is always the best alternative because the specific result was based on the assumed facts. Rather it is intended to show how dramatically the present value cash flow analysis alters the result. The Financing Alternative, with the highest cumulative cost, results in the lowest present worth cost, and Purchase Alternative, with the lowest cumulative cost, results in the highest present worth cost.

D.​The Lessor’s Lease Investment Analysis

The prospective lessor, in making its financial analysis, wants to know how much its return will be on the leased equipment. The concepts of cash flow and present value also play an important part in the lessor’s analysis.

This section will analyze one type of lease, the nonleveraged lease-where the lessor uses its own funds entirely to buy the equipment.

1.​Nonleveraged Lease

As explained earlier, in a nonleveraged lease, the lessor supplies all the money necessary to buy the equipment from its own funds. Whether this type of investment will make economic sense depends on how profitable the transaction will be to the lessor. Thus determining the profit--commonly referred to as the rate of return (usually computed on an after-tax basis)--is a threshold issue in any financial lease investment evaluation.

Traditionally, an after-tax lessor’s rate of return has been defined as the interest rate--sometimes referred to as the discount rate--that will discount a lease’s after-tax cash flows back to a value equal to his initial cash outlay. Or, looking at it another way, it is the rate that, when applied to the original cash investment, will produce the future cash flow amounts generated by the lease.

To explain the investor rate of return analysis approach, we will work through a hypothetical nonleveraged lease example, assuming the following facts:

Equipment Data

Cost$1 million
Depreciable life5 years
Residual value$0
Delivery dateJanuary 1, 2016
Lease commencement dateJanuary 1, 2016
DescriptionComputer

Lease Investment Data

Lease term7 years
Rental payments7 annual payments in arrears, each equal to $200,000
ITC0%
Investor income tax rate35%
Depreciation methodMACRS (Half-Year, DB/SL 200)

Based on these facts, and the assumption that the lessor is an accrual basis taxpayer, Table 9-7 sets out the lessor’s cash flow and federal income reports as follows:

The columns in Table 9-7 are computed as follows:

•​Annual Depreciation represents the amount of the annual MACRS deduction available to the lessor on the computer as five-year recovery property and applying the half-year convention.

•​The Federal Taxable Income is the result of subtracting the annual depreciation deduction from the rent income. The lessor is an accrual basis taxpayer, so the rent income is accrued for the year ending December 30, 2016 for federal income tax purposes, resulting in no federal taxable income for this year ($200,000 rent income - $200,000 depreciation expense =0), and there would be no federal tax accrued rent income for the year ending December 30, 2023.

•​The Total Taxes Paid represents the dollar savings or cost on the income or loss in the Federal Taxable Income column based on a 35% income tax rate. Where the figure is negative, the lessor reduces his overall tax liability by that amount.

•​The After-tax Cash Flow results from adjusting the Pre-tax Cash Flow by the amount of the taxes paid or saved. Thus where the Total Taxes Paid figure is negative, this amount is added to the Pre-tax Cash Flow; where the Total Taxes Paid figure is positive, this amount is subtracted from the Pre-tax Cash Flow.

Once the after-tax cash flows have been calculated, the after-tax rate of return--often referred to as the after-tax yield--can be found by finding the interest rate that will discount the after-tax cash flows back to the cost of the computer, $1 million. Here, the lessor will receive an after-tax yield equal to 9.1961%.

E.​Summary

The key to a proper lessee lease verses purchase analysis, or a lessors’ investment return analysis, is determining the various cash inflows and outflows on a present value basis. Because of the complexity of making these determinations, and the risk of human computation error, it’s always advisable to use one of the many computer programs available today for these purposes.

c2TK

CHAPTER 9

Understanding the Lease Accounting Rules

A.​Background

During the early years of the equipment leasing business, the accounting profession devoted considerable time and effort discussing how leases should be accounted for, both from the standpoint of the lessor and the lessee. There were many inconsistencies and substantive disagreements. Finally, in 1973, the subject of accounting for leases was addressed by the accounting profession’s standard setting body, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), with the firm intent of resolving the many problems. After issuing several exposure drafts and considering a multitude of letters of comments, position papers, and oral presentations from interested parties, they adopted, in November 1976, the “Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13-Accounting for Leases.” Commonly referred to as FAS No. 13, the rules promulgated therein established the standards to be followed by lessors and lessees in accounting for and reporting lease transactions. The problems were not over, however. Since FAS No. 13 was issued, the FASB has been called on to address a wide variety of issues raised by these financial accounting and reporting guidelines. As a result, various amendments and interpretations have been put out in an effort to clarify or handle many of the guideline’s complex issues. Accordingly, at the time of this writing and expected to start in 2015, the lease accounting rules will change from those currently in effect as discussed below. There will be a few major changes of significance. First, operational lease obligations (discussed below), currently not required to be recorded as balance sheet obligations, will need to be capitalized in the same manner as capital lease obligations (discussed below)—that is, they will have to be included as assets and as liabilities on the balance sheet. This change will affect some financial measurements, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (commonly referred to as “EBITDA”), as well as operating leverage and interest coverage. In addition to the change to the classification of leases, the definition of lease payment will change to include certain variable rents that are based on rates such as Euribor and Libor or indexes, such as CPI, in addition to certain contractual payments as well as bargain renewal rents. The details of classification could be different for the lessee and the lessor. That being the case if is important that the reader understand the current lease accounting rules, explained in this chapter below, so that changes can best be put into perspective.

Observation: Keep in mind that FAS No. 13 is saying that a lease that transfers substantially all of an asset’s ownership benefits and risks to the lessee must be treated by the lessee in the same way an asset bought with borrowed money is treated (capital lease treatment). The lessor must account for the lease as a sale or a financing. The revised rules for 2015 will require a new look at this, but all other types of leases should be treated as the rental of property (operating lease treatment).

For quick perspective, an operating lease is like a rental contract, with the lessee reporting these rent payments as operating expenses, but does not claim any depreciation expense. The lessor (the equipment owner), however, can claim the depreciation tax benefits. Capital leases, on the other hand, are viewed like a financed purchase—in other words, under the lease terms, the lessee may have some of the benefits of ownership, such as charging depreciation expense, and accounting for the asset on the balance sheet as a capital asset.

Because of the scope and detail of the lease accounting rules and because the intent of this chapter is to provide the reader with an awareness of the most relevant concepts, every aspect of the rules will not be explained. The material will, however, point out and generally explain the fundamental issues that have an impact on the everyday decisions involved in leasing equipment. Please keep in mind that the discussion below relates solely to the lease accounting rules before the changes discuss above are implemented.

B.​Lease Classifications for a Lessee Vary Significantly-A Careful Analysis Is Essential

Under FAS No. 13, a lessee must account for and report a lease in its financial statements as either a “capital” lease or an “operating” lease, depending on how the transaction is structured. The way the two types of leases are treated varies significantly. In certain cases, it may not be advisable for a company to lease equipment because of the accounting treatment impact.

The criteria for determining whether a lease from the lessee’s viewpoint must be classified as capital lease or an operating lease have been well defined in FAS No. 13. A lease must be treated as a capital lease if, at its inception, it meets one or more of the following criteria:

•​The lease arrangement provides for a transfer of the property’s ownership to the lessee by the end of the lease term.

•​There is a bargain purchase option in the lease. A bargain purchase option is basically one in which the lessee has a right to buy the property for a price that is so far below its anticipated fair value, at the time it can be exercised, that it is likely the lessee will elect to buy the property.

•​The term of the lease is for a period equal to or greater than 75% of the property’s estimated economic useful life.

•​The present value of the “minimum lease payments” at the lease inception (excluding any executory costs included in the payments such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes that the lessor will pay and any profits on those costs) is equal to or greater than 90% of the excess of the fair value of the leased property (determined at the beginning of the lease) over any investment tax credit (lTC) claimed and expected to be realized by the lessor. The present value computation is calculated by discounting the payments at the lower of the lessor’s implicit lease interest rate or the interest rate the lessee would have to pay for a loan running the length of the lease term (the lessee’s “incremental borrowing rate”). If it is not practicable for the lessee to learn the lessor’s implicit lease rate of interest, the lessee must use its borrowing rate to make the present value computation. FAS No. 13 defines “minimum lease payments” as those payments that the lessee must make or can be required to make. This includes minimum rent payments, residual value guarantees, and payments for failure to renew or extend the lease.

If the lease does not meet any of the above criteria, it is classified as an operating lease.

Illustrative Example-The Present Value Test: Company Able is considering leasing a new truck from Company Baker. Will the present value test for capital lease classification be met? Here are the facts:

Noncancelable lease term5 years
Monthly rent (in arrears)$180
Fair market value (FMV) at lease inception$10,000

Executory costsTo be paid by Company Able
lTC0%
Company Able’s borrowing rate10%

Company Baker’s Implicit Lease RateCompany Able unable to determine

In this example, the minimum lease payments are the rental payments. The present value of the monthly rental payments computed by discounting the future rent payment stream by 10% per annum is equal to $8,472. Ninety percent of the truck’s FMV at the beginning of the lease is $9,000. Because the present value of the rental stream is less than $9,000, the present value test for capital lease classification is not met.

C.​The Accounting Requirements Have an Impact on a Lessee

The way a lessee must account for a lease in its financial statements depends on its classification, that is, whether it falls within the capital or operating lease category. If a lease is classified as a capital lease, the lessee must record it both as an asset and an obligation at an amount equal to the present value (at the beginning of the lease term) of the minimum lease payments during the lease term. Executory costs included in the payments, such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes that the lessor must pay, and any profit on these costs, must be excluded before making the present value computation. (If the lessee is unable to determine the executory costs included in the payments, the lessee must estimate such executory costs and exclude such estimated amount prior to making the present value determination.) If the minimum lease payment present value amount turns out to be greater than the property’s “fair value” (generally the property’s purchase cost) determined at the beginning of the lease, then the fair value is to be recorded.

The lease payment present value calculation is to be made in the same manner as it is when determining whether a lease meets the present value criteria for capital lease classification. In other words, the payment stream is to be discounted at the lower of the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate for a loan of a similar term or the lessor’s implicit lease interest rate. If it is not practicable for the lessee to learn the lessor’s implicit interest rate, the incremental borrowing rate must be used.

A lessee must write off (amortize) a capital lease under certain specific rules. Which rule must be followed depends on which of the four capital lease classification criteria is met. If the lease meets the first or second criterion (that is, if the ownership of the property is transferred to the lessee at the end of the lease term or the lessee has a bargain purchase option), the lessee must write it off in a manner consistent with its usual depreciation practice for assets it owns. If the lease does not meet either of these two criteria, the lessee must amortize the property, over a period equal to the lease term, in a manner consistent with its normal depreciation practice down to a value it expects the property to be worth at the end of the lease.

A lessee must account for a lease categorized as an operating lease in a different manner than one that is classified as a capital lease. Generally, the rental payments will be charged to expense as they become due on a straight-line basis, whether they are in fact payable on a straight-line basis. There is, however, an exception to the straight-line reporting rule. If another systematic and rational time pattern method for reflecting the property’s use benefit is more representative, that method must be used in reporting the rent expense.

Recommendation: The difference in reporting impact between a capital lease and an operating lease is significant. If a prospective lessee does not want a lease obligation to appear as a long-term liability, it must make sure that it will be classified as an operating lease. If it cannot be so treated, and there are no other compelling reasons to lease, the possibility of buying the asset must be carefully considered in view of the effect on its financial picture.

D.​The Lease Classification Categories for a Lessor Are Extensive

From the standpoint of lessor accounting, FAS No. 13 provides that all leases must be categorized as either sales-type leases, direct financing leases, leveraged leases, or operating leases. Each category has certain attributes that the lessor must carefully take into account when making the classification determination.

A lease will be classified as a sales-type lease if all the following tests are met:

•​The lease gives rise to a dealer’s or manufacturer’s profit, or loss, to the lessor.

•​One or more of the lessee criteria for capital lease classification are met.

•​The minimum lease payment collectability is reasonably predictable.

•​There are no important uncertainties as to the amount of any unreimbursable costs that the lessor has not yet incurred.

A dealer’s or manufacturer’s profit, or loss, will exist if the fair value of the leased equipment at the beginning of the lease is greater, or less, as the case may be, than the lessor’s cost, or carrying amount if different than the cost. This test is usually met when an equipment manufacturer or dealer leases, instead of sells, its equipment to a lessee. In this case, the fair value of the equipment will typically be greater than its cost or carrying amount.

Observation: There are situations under FAS No. 13 when a lessor could accrue a dealer’s or manufacturer’s type of profit, or loss, without actually being a dealer or manufacturer. The lease accounting rules provide that a sales-type lease can exist if the equipment’s fair value at the lease inception is greater, or less, than the lessor’s cost or carrying amount, if this amount is different from the cost.

The criteria for determining whether a lease will be classified as a direct financing lease is much easier to understand once the governing rules for a sales-type lease and a lessee capital lease have been mastered. Very simply, a lease will be a direct financing lease if, at its inception, all of the following five tests are satisfied:

•​One or more of the criteria for lessee capital lease classification has been met.

•​The lease does not fall within the category of leveraged lease.

•​The lease does not give rise to a dealer’s or manufacturer’s profit, or loss, to the lessor.

•​The collectability of the minimum lease payments is reasonably predictable.

•​There are no important uncertainties as to the amount of any unreimbursable costs that the lessor has yet to incur under the lease.

Ascertaining whether a lease will be categorized as a leveraged lease is more complex than determining whether it is a sales-type lease or a direct financing lease. Basically, if a lease is a direct financing lease and meets all of the following criteria it will be considered a leveraged lease.

•​No less than three participants, a lessee, a lessor, and a long-term lender, are involved.

•​The long-term debt is nonrecourse as to the lessor’s general credit.

•​The principal amount of the long-term debt will substantially leverage the lessor’s investment.

•​The lessor’s net investment goes down in the early lease years after it has been completed and goes up in the later lease years before it is entirely eliminated. (The term “net investment” is explained in the following section.)

•​Any available lTC that the lessor retains is accounted for as one of the lease cash flow components.

The definition of an operating lease is straightforward. It is simply a lease that does not qualify as a direct financing lease, a sales-type lease, or a leveraged lease.

E.​The Lessor’s Accounting Requirements Are Complex

FAS No. 13 carefully details how lessors must account for sales-type, direct financing, leveraged, and operating leases. The rules are complex, and a lessor must make sure they are clearly understood before committing to a lease transaction, to avoid an undesirable accounting treatment.

1.​For a Sales-Type Lease

If a lease fits within the sales-type lease category, a lessor must determine its gross investment in the lease. The lessor’s gross investment is the sum of the lease rents and other minimum lease payments and the equipment’s unguaranteed residual value that will accrue to the lessor’s benefit. The minimum lease payment sum must be computed net of any executory costs included in the payments, such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes, which the lessor must pay, and any profit on such costs,

The lessor must record the lease’s unearned income. Unearned income is the difference between the lessor’s gross investment and the sum of the present values of the minimum lease payments, adjusted for certain executory costs, and any profits on such costs, and the equipment’s unguaranteed residual value that will accrue to the lessor’s benefit. The present value computations are to be made using the lessor’s implicit lease interest rate as the discount rate. Generally, the lease’s unearned income must be amortized to income over the lease term in such a manner so as to produce a constant periodic rate of return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease. Net investment is the difference between the gross investment and the unearned income. The accounting rules require that the lessor’s net investment in a lease be treated in the same way as other current or noncurrent assets in a classified balance sheet.

The equipment’s sales price, defined as the present value of the minimum lease payments, net of certain executory costs and any profits on those costs, must also be computed and recorded. The equipment’s cost (or carrying amount, if different), increased by any initial negotiation and consummation expenses (referred to as “initial direct costs”), such as legal fees, and reduced by the present value of the lessor’s unguaranteed residual value, must be charged against income for the same period. The present value computation is to be made using a discount rate equal to the lessor’s implicit lease Interest rate.

The leased equipment’s residual value is given special attention. The rules require a lessor to review the estimated value used in the required computations on an annual basis. If the value experiences a permanent decline, the reporting criteria must be adjusted accordingly. If, on the other hand, there has been an increase in the expected residual value no adjustments are permitted.

2.​For a Direct Financing Lease

A lessor must account for a direct financing lease in somewhat the same manner as a sales-type lease. As with a sales-type lease, a lessor must determine its gross investment in the lease. Gross investment is defined in the same way as it is for a sales-type lease. Unearned income, defined for a direct financing lease as simply the difference between the lessor’s gross investment and the equipment’s cost, must be recorded. In the event the carrying amount of the equipment is different from its cost, the carrying amount must instead be used in making this computation.

The lessor’s net investment in the lease is recorded and is to be classified in the same way as other current or noncurrent assets in a classified balance sheet. Net investment is defined as the gross investment, plus any amortized initial direct costs, minus the unearned income.

The rules require the unearned income and the initial direct costs of putting a lease transaction together, such as commissions or legal fees, to be amortized to income over the lease term in such a way as to show a constant periodic return rate on the lessor’s net investment. Other methods of income recognition, however, may be used if the results produced do not differ materially from those obtained by using this suggested method.

The equipment’s estimated residual value must be annually reviewed. If a permanent decrease in the value estimate has occurred, the computations incorporating the value must be adjusted accordingly. No adjustments are allowed to reflect an increase in the value estimate.

3.​For an Operating Lease

If a lease is deemed to be an operating lease, the accounting treatment is somewhat simpler for a lessor than if the lease is a sales-type or direct financing lease. Equipment subject to such a lease must be recorded on the lessor’s balance sheet in or near the “property, plant, and equipment” category. Also, the equipment must be depreciated under the lessor’s usual depreciation policy. The investment in the equipment must be shown reduced by the accumulated depreciation.

The rent received under an operating lease is handled in a straightforward manner. It is reported as income when and as due and is taken in on a straight-line basis, regardless of how the rent is actually to be paid. There is, however, an exception to this reporting method. If any other systematic method for reporting the rent income would more accurately reflect the time pattern reduction in the property’s use benefit, then that method must be used.

Any initial direct costs incurred by the lessor in connection with putting the transaction together cannot, in general, be treated as they are in a direct financing lease situation. They must be deferred and allocated over the term of the lease in proportion to how the rent income is recognized. They may, however, be expensed when incurred if the effect would not be materially different than it would be under the deferred treatment.

4.​For a Leveraged Lease

The lessor’s investment in a leveraged lease must be stated net of the transaction’s nonrecourse debt. The lessor’s investment at any point in time is determined by computing (1) the rents receivable, minus the portion going to pay the debt service on the nonrecourse debt; (2) a receivable for any lTC amount to be realized; (3) the equipment’s estimated residual value; and (4) the transaction’s unearned and deferred income. The unearned and deferred income at any point is defined as the sum of the lease’s estimated remaining and unallocated pre-tax income or loss, adjusted by subtracting any initial direct costs, and any lTC that has not yet been allocated to income over the lease term.

The lessor must also determine the rate of return on its net investment during the years it is positive. The rate of return is defined as the rate that, when applied to the net investment during the years it is positive, will distribute the net income to these years. The lessor’s net investment in a leveraged lease is simply the lessor’s investment reduced by the deferred taxes arising from the difference between the lessor’s pretax accounting income and taxable income.

As with a sales-type lease and a direct financing lease, the lessor must review the estimated residual value of the equipment each year and adjust it downward if it appears that the estimated amount was excessive and that it has undergone a permanent reduction over that originally estimated. If an adjustment is necessary, certain other recalculations are necessary using the new residual assumption. No upward adjustment is permitted if there has been an estimated increase in the residual value.

F.​Accounting Rules Governing Sale-Leaseback Situations

Because many leases arise through sale-leaseback transactions, it is worthwhile mentioning the governing lease accounting rules, A “sale-leaseback” is defined as a transaction in which an owner sells equipment to a third party and leases it back. The buyer will then be the lessor and the original owner will become the lessee.

From the lessee’s viewpoint, the lease accounting rules are the same as in any lease situation. That is, if the lease would otherwise have to be classified as a capital lease, it will still be considered as a capital lease. If it qualifies as an operating lease, it will still be accounted for as an operating lease. The reporting of the profit or loss from the equipment’s sale, however, is specially treated. If the lease is a capital lease, the seller-lessee must defer any profit or loss resulting from the sale to the lessor-buyer and amortize it in proportion to the amortization of the leased equipment. If the lease is classified as an operating lease, generally any profit or loss must be amortized in proportion to the rents charged to expense over the term of the lease.

If the lease would qualify for a lessee as a capital lease, the collectability of the minimum lease payments is reasonably predictable, and there are no important uncertainties as to the amount of any unreimbursable costs that the lessor has yet to incur under the lease, the transaction must be treated by the lessor as a purchase and a direct financing lease. If it does not, it must be accounted for as a purchase and an operating lease.

G.​A Lease Classification Checklist for Lessees

The lessee can use the following checklist as general guidelines in classifying its leases for accounting and reporting purposes.

If a lease meets one or more of the following criteria, has it been classified as a capital-lease?

•​Does the lease transfer the equipment’s ownership to the lessee by the end of the lease?

•​Does the lessee have the right to buy the leased equipment at a price well below its value at the time the right can be exercised?

•​Does the lease run for a term that is equal to or greater than 75% of the equipment’s estimated economic useful life?

•​Is the present value of the rent and other minimum lease payments, net of certain executory costs and profits on such costs, equal to or greater than 90% of the equipment’s fair value as of the lease inception, minus any investment tax credit to be retained by the lessor?

If it is practicable for the lessee to learn the implicit lease rate computed by the lessor and it is lower than the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate, has the present value test been computed using this rate?

•​If it is not lower, has the value been calculated using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate?

If a lease does not meet any of the tests above, has it been classified as an operating lease?

H.​A Lease Classification Checklist for Lessors

The lessor can use the following checklist as general guidelines in classifying its leases for accounting and reporting purposes. [It should be noted that if a lease does not qualify as a sales-type lease, a direct financing lease, or a leveraged lease, in accordance with the following applicable guidelines, it must be classified as an operating lease. In addition, if the lease arises out of a sale-leaseback transaction, it must, as mentioned in Section F of this chapter, also comply with certain sales-leaseback governing rules.]

A lease must be classified as a sales-type lease if it meets all of the following:

•​The lessor incurs a manufacturer’s or dealer’s type of profit or loss.

•​The lease meets at least one of the following criteria.

(1)​The lease transfers the equipment’s ownership to the lessee by the end of the lease.

(2)​The lessee has the right to buy the leased equipment at a price well below its expected fair value at the time the right can be exercised

(3)​The lease runs for a term that is equal to or greater than 75% of the equipment’s estimated economic useful life.

(4) The present value of the rent and other minimum lease payments, net of certain executory costs and profits on such costs, is equal to or greater than 90% of the equipment’s fair value as of the lease inception, minus any ITC to be retained by the lessor.

•​The collectability of the rent and other minimum lease payments is reasonably predictable.

•​There are no important uncertainties concerning the lessor’s yet-to-be-incurred unreimbursable costs.

A lease (other than a leveraged lease) must be classified as a direct financing lease if it meets all of the following:

•​The lessor does not incur a manufacturer’s or dealer’s type of profit or loss.

•​The lease meets at least one of the following criteria:

(1)​The lease transfers the equipment’s ownership to the lessee by the end of the lease.

(2)​The lessee has the right to buy the leased equipment at a price well below its expected fair value at the time the right can be exercised.

(3)​The lease runs for a term that is equal to or greater than 75% of the equipment’s estimated economic useful life

(4) The present value of the rent and other minimum lease payments, net of certain executory costs and profits on such costs, is equal to or greater than 90% of the equipment’s fair value as of the lease inception, minus any ITC to be retained by the lessor.

•​The collectability of the rent and other minimum lease payments is reasonably predictable.

•​There are no important uncertainties concerning the lessor’s yet to be incurred unreimbursable costs.

A lease must be classified as a leveraged lease if all of the following criteria are met:

•​The lease qualifies as a direct financing lease.

•​The lease involves at least three parties--a lessee, a long-term lender, and a lessor.

•​The long-term debt financing is nonrecourse to the general credit of the lessor.

•​The amount of long-term debt will substantially leverage the lessor’s invested funds.

•​The lessor’s “net investment” goes down in the early lease years once made, and rises during the latter lease years before eliminated.

•​Any available ITC that the lessor retains is accounted for as one of the lease cash flow components.

I.​Summary of Accounting Lease Classifications

The following summarizes, in a very simplified manner, the prominent aspects of each accounting lease classification for lessees and lessors. Only the most salient have been listed. The reader is referred to the earlier text of this chapter for the details of each lease classification.

Lessee/LessorKey Characteristics
Lessee Lease Classifications
Capital LeaseA lease that runs for 75% or more of an asset’s useful life, automatically transfers ownership at the lease end, has a bargain purchase option, or whose rents present value to 90% or more of the assets fair value, adjusted for any ITC.
Operating LeaseAny lease not falling within the capital lease classification. It is generally the most desirable lease classification for lessee financial reporting purposes. The rent payments are charged to expense as they become due.
Lessor Lease Classifications
Sales-Type LeaseA lease that gives rise to a dealer’s or manufacturer’s profit or loss. In certain situations, even a lessor, not a dealer or manufacturer, may have to report a lease as a sales type lease.
Direct Financing LeaseA lease which does not fall within the leveraged lease classification and which does not give rise to a dealer’s or manufacturer’s profit or loss must be classified as a direct financing lease.
Leveraged Lease
Operating LeaseA direct financing lease in which there is a third-party nonrecourse lender. any lease that is not classified as either a sales-type lease, a direct financing lease or a leveraged lease.

I.​Summary

The “Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13-Accounting for Leases” commonly referred to as FAS No. 13, sets forth the rules to be followed by lessors and lessees in accounting for and reporting lease transactions. FAS No. 13 in effect says that a lease that transfers substantially all of an asset’s ownership benefits and risks to the lessee must be treated by the lessee in the same way an asset bought with borrowed money is treated (capital lease treatment). On the other hand, the lessor must account for the lease as a sale or a financing. All other types of leases should be treated by the lessor as the rental of property (operating lease treatment). The rules can be complex, so care must be taken in assessing their impact on an equipment lease transaction. And, for 2015, the rules discussed above need to be revisited in light of the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s implemented changes.

c301

CHAPTER 10

The Business of Leasing Equipment

A.​Overview

The leasing business in the United States is mature, and competition is intense. There are still many attractive profit opportunities--but you must approach the business knowledgeably, and carefully. If you don’t, mistakes are inevitable and devastating losses likely. This has been attested to over and over during the past by the many non-bank, and bank-affiliated, leasing company problems, closings, sell-offs, and bankruptcies. A quick review of a typical problem operation invariably shows a variety of historically repetitive and obvious mistakes. Mistakes that frequently went unnoticed for years--ones often resulting from top management’s lack of street-wise business expertise, short-sighted attempts to maintain near-term profits, or desire to increase profit-based bonuses. So, if you are considering being in the leasing business, or want to expand, or improve the profitability of, an existing leasing operation, a solid understanding of the basic business strategies successful leasing companies use today to survive and make money is essential. That’s what this chapter is about.

The threshold question is why would an individual, or company, set up a leasing operation? There are a number of basic reasons. First, to use available equipment ownership tax benefits to offset, or defer, tax liabilities from unrelated revenues sources--tax shelter. Second, to earn financing profits--the difference between the cost of purchasing and leasing equipment and lease revenues. And third, to assist in marketing products sold by an affiliate of the leasing company. For example, a manufacturer or vendor of telephone systems may establish a captive (in-house) leasing operation to facilitate the sale of its equipment. Having readily available and attractive product financing, particularly when competitors do not, can assure the product sale. Paying $200 a month, rather than $10,000 up front, for needed equipment makes the customer’s purchase leap faith mush easier.

Observation: To assure your chances of success in today’s competitive equipment leasing environment, you must have a value-added marketing strategy. One, for example, that fills a niche not already crowded with other lessors. If you can identify such a niche, the opportunity for growth can be great. And the business prospects can be exciting.

B.​Key Profit Strategies

Aside from financing profits, equipment leasing offers a leasing company a number of additional benefits. Here are the key ones.

1.​Valuable Assets Purchased With Someone Else’s Money

How would you react if a wealthy neighbor asked you to lease her an $80,000 BMW for her business use? Assume you could borrow the entire purchase price from your local bank at a rate that gave you a $200 monthly profit. And assume the loan could be based solely upon your neighbor’s credit, having no impact on your future borrowing capabilities. Further, if your neighbor defaulted on her lease payments for any reason, you would not be responsible to pay off any remaining loan balance. Assume also that the lease would be for 4 years, the rents would pay off the entire bank loan and, when the lease ended your neighbor would have to return the car to you in excellent condition. The result: At the end of 4 years, you would own a cream-puff BMW, free and clear, to do with as you wish. Sell it. Re-lease it. Or simply use it as your personal car. Sound good? Most people would agree that it does. That’s the business of equipment leasing.

You might think it’s not possible to get a bank to loan you money to invest without holding you responsible for its repayment. But so-called non-recourse equipment loans, discussed in Chapter 9, are available because banks and other lenders will loan money on the strength of a strong lease contract, generally without relying on the credit worthiness of the owner-lessor—other than for certain basic lending/borrowing representations that, in effect, state the transaction is valid, representations that pose little risk to the legitimate borrower. As you now know from Chapter 3, the lease must contain a hell or high water clause, obligating the lessee to keep sending in the rent payments no matter what happens, even if the lessor-owner fails to live up to his lease obligations to the lessee, or the equipment is destroyed or otherwise unavailable for use. So, if you have a hell or high water lease with a good credit lessee, non-recourse equipment loans are available. The most interesting aspect of non-recourse loans is they, in effect, provide the lessor-owner with an unlimited borrowing capacity.

If this sounds attractive, consider going a step further. What if nine more wealthy neighbors approached you at the very same time to have you lease them BMWs under the same terms, for 4 year terms, and providing you with a $200 per month profit on each car? Your profit would be $2,000 a month and you would own ten BMWs at the end of their respective 4-year lease terms, all free and clear. Not a bad return for a no-money-down investment—assuming that you did not have to make a residual (end-of-lease) investment.

That’s one basic strategy of the leasing business: Getting credit-worthy companies to pay for, and maintain, assets which can be sold or re-released at a profit, all the time making a profit while waiting for their return. All the leasing company has to do, once the lease deals are put together, is to remember to send out the rent bills, and to deposit the payment checks when they come in. And if you, as a lessor, don’t want to do that, you can sell the lease packages off at a profit equal, or close, to what you would have earned if you had been a patient business person.

2.​Windfall Profits--A Possibility

Now let’s assume in the prior section example that at the end of the 4-year lease each BMW was worth 50% of original cost. In addition to a $200 monthly profit, selling each car at the end of lease would bring in $40,000 in end-of-lease, or residual, revenues.

The residual value revenue expectations, what assets are expected to be worth at the end of their lease periods, are an important part of today’s leasing business. It’s not unusual for equipment residual values to range from 10% to 100% of the equipment’s original cost--and sometimes even higher. The residual values, of course, depend on the type of asset, its return condition, inflation, and market demand. For example, in the mid to late 1980s some 10 year old river barges would sell for prices in excess of their original purchase price.

In the early days of the leasing business, when competition was not intense, and financing spread profits were high, what an asset was expected to be worth at the end of its lease term was almost irrelevant. When the typical lease was over, a lessor had made all the money it needed from the lease transaction, even if the asset had to be junked. But many quickly augmented their profit objectives when word got around about a few aircraft lessors who made lottery-like windfall profits from selling off their end-of-lease aircraft. Some aircraft sales values after a 10 to 15 year lease approached, or exceeded, original cost. Add to that the fact that these aircraft lessors had returned, through lease term rents, all but a minimal amount (often between 10% and 15% of original cost) of their invested principal repaid, and made a tidy profit, and you had some very happy aircraft lessors. As you might expect, other leasing companies soon caught on to the aircraft residual “end game” and began to stay alert for high residual return possibilities in other types of equipment as well. The residual end game became so profitable that some lessors even adopted a strategy of acquiring multi-millions of dollars of high residual vale potential equipment solely for the end-of-lease sale or re-lease profits. They cut their lease term profits to the bare minimum necessary to win business, with rents often covering little more than basic transaction and overhead costs, anticipating profits when the equipment came off lease. Some leasing companies became so aggressive that they wrote leases that produced a loss during the lease term, counting on the fact that once through the initial start-up phase, the cash flow squeeze was over and yearly residual profits would provide solid bottom-line returns. Heavy reliance on residual profits is still a primary objective in leasing today, particularly in “big ticket” lease transactions.

There is risk, however, in placing primary emphasis on residual profit expectations. Lessors that do, run the risk that equipment won’t be worth much more than scrap value if there is no market demand for it or it becomes technologically obsolete. If rents just pay overhead, the potential for loss is great, particularly if unexpected costs are incurred. And if residual revenue expectations are not met, there is little, or no, economic return for the effort. Some aircraft lessors, for instance, encountering a market demand lull in the 1980s, had to store equipment and wait years for better sale or re-leasing opportunities. Equipment and industry diversification can reduce this type of risk.

3.​The Repeat Business Customer Annuity

Developing an extensive customer lease portfolio should be a strategic business objective of every leasing company. Qualified prospects are valuable; customers that lease, often lease again--at times forgetting about getting competitive bids. Non-competitive bid situations assure lessors of solid returns.

With qualified leasing customer contacts, a leasing company can readily originate new business with little expense--often a simple letter offering lease financing, with a follow-up telephone call, is enough to identify upcoming leasing opportunities. And doing business with a good-paying existing customer has far less credit risk than dealing with an unknown customer. Clearly, there is no substitute for first-hand payment experience. All the credit due diligence in the world may not uncover credit potholes--financial statements and discussions with trade references and lenders, for example, rarely always tell the whole credit story.

a.​The Low Rate Strategy Of Buying Repeat Customers

There is no doubt that approaching leasing customers that you have already done business with makes the lease financing sale much easier. If rapport and trust have been establish through earlier transactions, many of the marketing barriers are removed. So, it may make sense, when approaching prospects that regularly lease equipment, to make your first deal very attractive--even at times to consider making offering a deal at less than break-even rates if necessary to win business, thereby making an investment in a potentially profitable longterm customer relationship. Satisfied lessees often give incumbent lessors exclusive deals from time to time, deals which can often provide better than market lease rates for the lessor.

b.​The Master Lease Strategy of Tying Up Repeat Customers

When dealing with new customers, putting a master lease agreement in place with them will pay dividends. Doing so cuts financing cost for all parties. As explained in Chapter 3, a master lease is a two-part document--the boiler plate portion containing the basic lease terms and conditions which will remain the same from deal to deal, and an attachment, often called a schedule, which is a short (often one to two pages in length) document which permits future business to be simply added by specifically incorporating the new equipment under the term of the master, or boiler-plate, document portion. Having only to negotiate a one or two page document for lease deals allows future financings to be handled with minimal effort and expense on both sides. Lessors with master leases in place are given an edge over competitors not having ones in place because of the ease of documentation, in many situations getting the last opportunity to win by matching the lowest bidder. In some cases, they are awarded deals even when they’re not the lowest rate simply because documentation is easy and documentation cost is low.

C.​Making Money in the Leasing Business

There are many ways to profit in a lease transaction. To succeed, and sometimes even survive, in the highly competitive business of equipment leasing, a leasing company must take advantage of every possible profit opportunity. The obvious areas for leasing profits are:

•​Interest charges

•​Tax benefits

•​Equipment sales or re-leases.

And, to the less experienced lessor, the less obvious ones are:

•​Interim rent

•​Prepayment penalties

•​Casualty occurrences

•​Insurance cost markups

•​Upgrade financing

•​Documentation fees

•​Filing fees

•​Maintenance charges

•​Repair costs

•​Excess use charges

•​Equity placement fees

•​Leveraging a Lease investment with third-party debt

•​Commitment or non-utilization fees

•​Re-marketing fees,

•​Late payment charges

•​Collection charges

•​Deal re-write fees

•​Equipment redelivery charges

The profit opportunity areas available to a leasing company may vary depending on the type of transaction, the level of credit risk involved, the dollar size of the lease transaction, and the business practices of its competition. For example, in the case of multi-million dollar leases of typically high residual value equipment, a substantial portion of lease profits come the equipment ownership tax benefits and the end-of-lease equipment sale, or re-lease, proceeds. In small ticket transactions, such as $10,000 to $50,000 leases, the lessor often expects little or no profit from end-of-lease sales. Instead it looks to its lease interest rate spread--the difference between its cost of funds and the interest rate implicit in the lease, and documentation and deal review charges.

The following discussion of lease profit areas has been primarily taken from earlier material throughout this book and summarily provided below to enable the reader interested in looking at involvement in equipment leasing to have all key aspects pulled together for review.

1.​The Basic Lease Profit Areas

The principal lease transaction profit areas are interest charges, equipment tax benefits and residual earnings. Not maximizing any one can significantly reduce the potential for transaction profits.

a.​Interest Charges

The obvious way to make money in an equipment lease is through financing profits. Financing profit, sometimes referred to as financing spread, is the difference between a leasing company’s cost of money and the lease interest rate charged. The higher the interest rate charged, the greater the financing profit.

Illustrative Example--Financing Profit: Assume a lessor borrows money at a 9% per annum interest rate and charges a lease interest rate of 11%. Its financing spread is 2% per annum. By increasing the lease interest rate to 12%, its financing profit increases to 3%.

Lease Marketing Tip: Prospective lessees, particularly small ticket lessees, are often more sensitive to their monthly rent cash outflow than to the lease interest charged. So, offering a longer lease term (stretching out the period of lease payments from say 3 years to 5 years) can maintain solid, or increase, financing profits and provide an acceptable lessee rent payment dollar amount. For example, assume that a lessor’s cost of money is 9% per annum, and that its desired financing spread is 3% per annum. Assume also that the equipment involved will have a zero end-of-lease value. In this case, the monthly, in arrears, payment on a 3-year lease of a $400,000 lathe would be $13,286. If the prospective lessee finds the $13,286 monthly payment too high, stretching the lease term to 5 years, at the same lease interest rate (9% + 3% = 12%) would drop the monthly lease payment to $8,897. Stretching out the lease term provides an opportunity to build in higher financing profits in a lease, while still keeping periodic cash flow payment relatively lower. For example, increasing the lease interest rate charge to 15% over the same five year term would result in a monthly lease rent of $9,516.

Market competition, reasonableness, and, sometimes, state usury laws limit how much financing spread a lessor can build into its lease rate. Typically, the smaller the lease dollar size, the higher the lease interest rate charged. For example, lease interest rates on $5,000 to $50,000 equipment transactions in today’s market generally range from 7% to 24% per annum. As transactions approach $100,000 and over, simple interest rates are generally in the 5% to 13.5% range. Once the deal size hits $1,000,000, rates can run 2% to 4% below the lessee’s equivalent long-term borrowing rate. In the latter case, for example, a $4,000,000, 12-year aircraft lease for a lessee that borrows long-term money at 8% per annum could run anywhere from 4% to 7% per annum.

Observations:

•​A lower lease rate in larger equipment transactions is not as bad as it may appear because greater absolute dollar profits are available. For example, a profit of 2% on a $1,000,000 lease is $20,000, whereas it is $200 on a $10,000 lease.

•​The competitive nature of the multi-million dollar lease transaction market often forces lessor to price their lease rates with little or no financing spread profit, making them to look to other transaction aspects, such as tax benefits and equipment residual proceeds, to offset minimal, or non-existent, cash flow.

Recommendation: Although leasing companies are not generally regulated by federal or state laws in connection with commercial (non-consumer) lease transactions, times are changing. Before setting what may be a high lease interest rate, have your lawyer check the governing state laws. A few states have enacted, or are considering implementing, rules which protect lessees. For example, unconscionable profit laws, referred to as usury laws, originally designed to protect individuals have, in Texas, been extended to corporations in installment sale-type financing. Included are low fixed price purchase option leases. If your lease runs afoul of state law, a lessee may be able to cancel the lease agreement and walk away without penalty. If you discover after you’ve entered into a lease that you’ve inadvertently charged a lease rate higher than governing law permits, it’s always a good idea to approach the lessee with an offer to reduce it, using a plausible business excuse, such as you have decided to make financing rate adjustment to certain preferred customers.

b.​Equipment Tax Benefits

The tax aspects of equipment leasing are explained in detail in Chapters 5 and 6. Very often, particularly in multi-million dollar equipment leases, the tax benefits available to a lessor are a critical component in computing anticipated transaction profits. In fact good credit companies considering the multi-million dollar lease transactions typically demand that lease rates reflect, and therefore pass through to a lessee in the form of relatively lower rent charges, at least a portion of the transaction tax benefits. Determining how to take into account the transaction tax benefits is very complex--and, fortunately today, there are many lessor profit (sometimes referred to as “yield”) analysis software programs which make the job considerably much easier. The reader is referred to Chapter 10 for a discussion of the lessor yield analysis approach.

As explained in earlier chapters, by leasing equipment a lessor, as equipment owner, has the right to claim equipment ownership tax benefits, such as depreciation and any available investment tax credits. In addition, in the case of leveraged lease transactions, there are certain other tax write-offs, such as the interest charges on the long-term equipment loans. A lessee, on the other hand typically cannot claim any equipment ownership tax benefits, but is entitled to deduct for the rent payments as a business expense.

Observation: By taking into account equipment-related tax benefits, a lessor is able to offer lower rents while maintaining its profit objectives. For example, typically a lessor offering an annual lease rate of 8%, could reduce its lease interest rate to 7% without reducing its economic return by incorporating deprecation benefits into its rent pricing.

c.​Residual Earnings

In pricing a lease transaction (setting the lease rents), an ideal lessor objective is to have sufficient lease term rents to return its entire equity investment, repay any equipment loans, and provide a solid profit, with any end-of-lease sale or re-lease (often referred to simply as “residual:) earnings simply as windfall profits. In other words, to set the lessee lease rents using a zero equipment residual assumption. In small ticket equipment transactions this is typically possible. In multi-million dollar equipment lease transaction, largely due to market competition, its typically not possible.

2.​Additional Areas of Potential Lease Profit.

A leasing company can earn significant profits from less obvious transaction aspects, such as interim rent, prepayment penalties, casualty occurrences, insurance cost markups, upgrade financing costs, documentation fees, filing fees, maintenance charges, repair costs, excess use charges, equity placement fees, debt costs and placement fees, commitment fees, non-utilization fees, re-marketing fees, late payment charges, collection charges, deal re-write charges, and equipment redelivery charges. Paying attention to each potential profit area can produce attractive additional economic returns.

a.​Interim Rent

One way many lessors build in extra profit dollars is providing for interim rent. Sometimes called pre-commencement, or stub period, rent, it is rent that is payable for a period running from the start of the lease to the beginning of its primary, or main, term. For example, a seven-year lease transaction might provide for the primary term to begin on the first day of the month. If the equipment is not delivered and accepted under the lease contract on the first of a month, there will be an interim rent period. If equipment was delivered, for instance, on the 7th of January, the seven-year period would begin February 1st, with an interim term of running from January 7th through January 31st. If the lease rents are computed on the basis of the primary term rents, the stub period rent is a windfall profit.

b.​Prepayment Penalties

A typical net finance lease may not be canceled for any reason--thus guaranteeing the lease profits, subject, of course, to a rent payment default. Some prospective lessees, however, want the right to terminate a lease early in if the equipment become obsolete or surplus to their needs. This request can be an opportunity for profit. Generally, when a right to terminate a lease early is granted, it is permitted only upon payment of an amount equal to a pre-determined termination value. By ensuring that the amount which a lessee must pay upon any lease termination not only makes a lessor economically whole, but also has a premium built in, say 5% of equipment cost, the benefit of the original bargain can be preserved--with a profit.

Generally, when an early lease termination right is granted, the lessor incorporates a termination payment schedule into the lease, each applicable termination payment expressed as a percentage of equipment cost for each rent payment period when a termination could be exercised. Payment of the appropriate termination value amount on any permitted rent date allows the lessee to terminate a lease as of that time. For example, a monthly lease might provide for a termination payment of 85% of equipment cost when the sixth rent payment is made, 83% of equipment cost when the seventh rent payment is made, and so on.

Properly structured, payment of a lease termination value will return the entire remaining equipment investment, with its anticipated profits at least to the date of termination, including providing funds to pay off any equipment purchase loans, and add an additional profit, the exercise penalty.

c.​Casualty Occurrences

An equipment casualty occurrence brings a lease to its end. In the same manner as an lessee-elected early lease termination, provision must be made for the protection of a lessor’s investment, and profit, at least to the date of the casualty occurrence.

Typically, leases contain casualty loss provisions that require that the lessee pay a predetermined casualty value payment. These payments are usually prescribed by formula in a lease provision or in a casualty payment schedule. They, like termination payments, are designed to make a lessor economically whole, including payment for loss of anticipated residual profits. For example, a monthly lease might provide, in the event of an equipment casualty occurrence during a specified rent payment period, for the payment of a casualty value amount equal to 98% of equipment cost anytime during the second rent payment period, 96% of equipment cost anytime during the third rent payment period, and so on.

In structuring an equipment casualty payment obligations, the lessor can build in a reasonable profit to compensate for loss of its long-term investment opportunity. When casualty payments are expressed as a percentage of equipment cost in a casualty payment schedule, one way to do this is to increase rock-bottom casualty loss payments by a small percentage, say 2% of equipment, added on each specified casualty value percentage.

d.​Insurance Cost Markups

Equipment insurance is a must in any equipment lease, and, generally, the lessee is required to provide the coverage through its insurance carrier. Although care must be taken by a lessor not to run afoul of any insurance regulations, providing the insurance itself, and passing the cost on to the lessee, with a markup, can create another lease profit opportunity. For example, a lessor might charge $14 a year for a $2,000 casualty insurance policy costing $8 a year, making a $6 profit On a $20,000,000 equipment portfolio, this means $60,000 annually. A lessor with insurance volume purchasing power can offer equipment lease insurance at a markup, while still providing rates equal to or lower than that available to most lessees.

There is another added benefit to a lessor providing the insurance coverage; doing so eliminates the need to administratively track compliance with the insurance coverage requirement of a lessee.

e.​Upgrade Financing

Equipment upgrades, when a lessee adds to or modifies existing leased equipment, can provide an opportunity for leasing profit. If the upgrade is not readily removable or has no stand-alone value, generally the existing lessor is the only one willing or able to finance it. In these situations, the lessee has two choices: To purchase upgrade with its own funds, or agree to whatever lease rate the lessor offers. If, as is the case in many situations, the upgrade is deemed, under the terms of the lease, to become the property of the lessor because, for example, it becomes an integral part of the leased equipment and can’t be removed without damage to the existing equipment, paying a higher financing cost may still be cheaper than purchasing an upgrade which automatically becomes the lessor’s property.

f.​Documentation and Filing Fees

Many lessees, particularly those leasing small ticket items of equipment, such as small telephone systems, will pay, with little or no objection, transaction processing, documentation preparation, and security interest filing fees. Small lease transaction documentation fees generally run from $50 to $200 per transaction. Security interest filing fees, such as state Uniform Commercial Code filing fees, are generally nominal, ranging from $15 to $25. The more fees a lessee pays, the less a lessor’s profit erosion.

g.​Equipment Maintenance and Repair Charges

Requiring a lessee to pay for all normal equipment upkeep, such as maintenance and repairs charges, protects a lessor’s investment by ensuring that the lessor’s profit is not eroded by unexpected maintenance and repair costs. A lessor able to shift the full cost burden of equipment maintenance and repair to a lessee in effect creates profit by eliminating re-sale or re-lease rehabilitation expenses when the lease term ends. In a typical finance lease arrangement, the lessee assumes all equipment upkeep expense. In other types of equipment leases it is a matter of negotiation.

Lessors willing, and able, to provide equipment maintenance and repair service, even in connection with a finance lease, can an opportunity for additional profit. Many computer vendors, for example, offer these types of services and have created substantial collateral lease revenues.

Very strict equipment maintenance and return provisions are another way to help ensure the highest potential profits. Provisions that require the lessee to return equipment in good operating condition ensure that end-of-lease equipment sale or re-lease values are the highest possible.

h.​Excess Use Charges

The better the condition leased equipment is in when returned, the greater the potential for the highest possible end-of-lease sale or re-lease profits. One way to ensure the best possible return condition is to put use restrictions on the equipment, which, if exceeded, call for penalty charges payable at the end of the lease. Automobile lessors typically have annual mileage limitations, which, if exceeded, require the lessee to pay additional rental charges to make up for potentially reduced end-of-lease sale or re-lease value. Leased aircraft are also often subject to use restrictions. Excess use charges can produce extraordinary profits.

i.​Equity Placement Fees

A lessor able to sell a portion, or all, of its equity investment in a lease to another equity investor can earn a fees for providing the investment opportunity. To ensure this option is available, a lease agreement should explicitly permit the sale of some or all of the lessor’s interest in the equipment and the lease without requiring notice to or consent from the lessee.

j.​Leveraging A Lease Investment With Third-Party Debt.

At times, leasing companies borrow a portion of the funds necessary to purchase the equipment from a third-party lender in transactions referred to as leveraged leases. By properly leveraging a lease investment with third-party debt, a lessor can increase its economic return. The key to being able to do this is to ensure that the lease agreement explicitly permits the assignment of the lessor’s interest in the equipment and the lease to a third-party lender without notice to or consent from the lessee.

k.​Commitment and Non-Utilization Fees

Commitment and non-utilization fees are another area for leasing profits. Lessors frequently ask lessees to pay a commitment or non-utilization fee when equipment is to be delivered in the future.

Commitment fees, non-refundable in nature, are designed to compensate a lessor for holding funds available. These fees help reduce the risk of lessor yield deterioration through adverse changes in its borrowing cost. Commitment fees are typically imposed when equipment deliveries are more than six months away, but many lessors ask for them when deliveries are not that far off. A fee of this nature must be paid up front and can range anywhere from 0.5% to 2% of equipment cost.

Non-utilization fees are, in effect, a penalty for not using the lease funds that a lessor held available for future delivered equipment. This type of fee can be less onerous, because it is payable only if the equipment is not leased, or the full funds initially made available for the equipment purchase are not used, and because it is due when the commitment period is over. For example, a lessor may require that the lessee pay a fee equal to 2% of the available funds anticipated for the cost of the equipment unused at the end of, say, five months. If all committed funds are used, the lessee owes nothing.

l.​Re-Marketing Fees

Equipment re-marketing fees are a way for equipment lessors to increase lease profits. For example, a lease may require that the lessee pay a predetermined fee to the lessor if the lessee elects to terminate a lease early, or at the end of the lease, in connection with the lessor’s re-marketing (the sale or re-lease) of the equipment. These fees are in addition to any other charges which may be payable, such as termination penalties, or costs to repair equipment to the condition required under the lease agreement.

m.​Late Payment Charges

Leases should always incorporate lessee late payment charges. If, for example, rent is not paid when due, there should be a penalty added to the late payment. Lessee often tolerate penalties in excess of the actual time value of money cost. In fact some late payment penalties as high as 5% to 10% of the rent charge.

n.​Collection Charges

Although not strictly a profit opportunity, requiring lessee to pay for any cost of ensuring timely lease payments, many lessors, particularly small ticket lessors, require lessees to pay telephone charges on collection calls. Anything that reduces overheard is indirectly a lessor profit item.

o.​Deal Re-Writes

A lessee requiting a change in the structure of a lease, referred to as a deal-re-write, may agree to pay a deal re-write fee for the privilege, for example, of having its lease extended. This can provide substantial profits, particularly in small lease transactions.

p.​Redelivery Charges

Equipment re-delivery charges are another are of profit opportunity. It is not unusual for a lessee to agree to return the leased equipment at the end of the lease to a designated return point, free of charge to the lessor. And it is not unusual for a lessor selling or re-leasing the equipment to a third party to obtain a delivery fee from the third party from the lessee’s location of use. Some lessors get lessees to agree to pay for all such shipment charges regardless of where in the world the equipment is designated to be shipped by the lessor, and then get the purchaser, or new lessee, to pay a delivery charge, as well.

D.​Considerations for Setting Up a Leasing Operation

Starting a leasing company is an involved process, and a detailed explanation is beyond the scope of this book. However, if you are considering establishing an equipment leasing activity, the following overview will assist you in determining threshold considerations. In making such a threshold assessment, you should take into account all the aspects of leasing that have been discussed earlier in this book, such as the financial, tax, legal, accounting and business considerations. In addition, you must think about the actual mechanics of starting and running a successful leasing operation, including the day-to-day administrative aspects of running a leasing business, obtaining adequate funding for lease transactions, marketing your financing, credit evaluation, documentation processing, state sales and use tax compliance, equipment appraisal and repossession, handling rent delinquencies, and working with outside counsel in the event a lawsuit is necessary.

The following discussion is a brief overview of the primary operational considerations necessary for the startup and day-to-day functioning of a leasing operation. Because of the many individual company variables, it is not possible to address all possible aspects that a particular company should consider.

1.​There Must Be a Solid Competitive Reason For Being In The Leasing Business

In determining whether to start a leasing company in today’s competitive environment, a company or individual should have a reason to start a leasing company that goes beyond the mere desire to get into the equipment leasing business because it sounds interesting or profitable. And that means that unless you have something unique to offer, such as filling a financing niche that has not been fully addresses by other leasing companies, or your company has a vast appetite for tax shelter offered by depreciation benefits of owning equipment, the road to success can be very difficult. On the other hand, if you or your company has a valued-added reason for entering the equipment leasing business, the story can be different, such as if your company is an equipment manufacturer or vendor looking to make leasing available for your customers. In addition, if you have significant contacts with equipment vendors who do not have effective financing in their marketing package, entering the leasing business may have competitive merit without offering something unique. For companies or banks already in the financial service business, entering the leasing market using the existing customer base can also make sense even though the financing programs are not market unique.

In a nutshell, before you jump into the leasing business, make sure that you have defined your market--and that there is a niche to be filled, or you have a value-added benefit to offer in the traditional market.

2.​Are Competitive Interest Rate Loans Available?

Clearly, you must have access to adequate funds at competitive interest rates if you plan to competitively enter the leasing business. Unless you or your company has readily available internal funds, getting the necessary debt and equity funds to purchase equipment for lease may not be easy. Interest rate aggressive equipment lease lenders, such as banks, often require a business track record of as much as two years in the leasing business, before they are willing to make loans available. Or they require other justifications for why taking the time to enter into loans arrangements will be worthwhile, such as your company is an equipment vendor with a solid sales and business history.

3.​Will Market-Dictated Leasing Profits Be Acceptable?

You must evaluate the lease rates offered by any lessor competition you may encounter. Competition over recent years in the leasing business has forced lease rates down. You may find that your acceptable profit level for lease transactions may not be competitively possible. For example, in the big ticket leasing market, many leasing companies, are accepting after-tax investment yields at the time of this writing in the 2% to 5% range. If that is the market you intend to enter, you may not find the economic returns necessary to attract business worthwhile.

4.​Residual Assessment

In many transactions, except, generally, small ticket leases, what you expect the equipment will be worth at the end of the lease term, the estimated residual value, will be an important ingredient in determining your profit expectations. In highly competitive transactions, you may be forced to make high equipment residual estimates in pricing your lease rents to win transactions. If that is something that will be unacceptable, you must find a market area that will fit your residual comfort level.

Observation: If you are willing to play the residual end game, it’s always a good idea to get expert equipment appraisal assistance.

5.​Prospective Lessee Credit Evaluations Are Critical

A critical element to survival in the leasing business is having the ability to properly assessing the credit risk of entering into long term leases with prospective lessees. Therefore, if your company doesn’t have the internal ability to assess the credit risk of a lease investment, it must acquire the expertise. And you should keep in mind that the credit approach for leasing to small business is dramatically different than leasing equipment to Fortune 1000 companies. Someone able to effectively evaluate the credit worthiness of a Fortune 1000 company, may be totally unable to make an effective credit evaluation of a small business for lease business purposes—the latter often an art rather than a science.

Observation: In order to be competitive in most leasing markets, your company must be able to make credit assessments quickly--that generally means in a matter of days, sometimes even as short as one day, not weeks.

a.​A Basic Credit Primer

As mention above, a prospective lessee’s credit worthiness is the most important consideration in the lessor’s decision to provide financing. If the prospective lessee’s credit is weak, financial support from the vendor or other third-party may be the only way for a prospective lessee to secure desired equipment financing.

A discussion of how to evaluate the credit worthiness of a prospective lessee is beyond the scope of this book. In addition, what may create a credit problem to one lessor, may not create a credit problem for another lessor. For example, leasing companies with in-depth equipment and re-marketing expertise may be more willing to overlook the typical credit concerns of a leasing company without this expertise.

Notwithstanding the fact that credit evaluation is beyond the scope of this book, it will be helpful to go over some basic considerations. In reviewing a prospective company’s credit strength, there are many factors brought into consideration, including assets and liabilities, cash flows, years in business, management strength, market presence, and the dollar size of the request financing.

Large publicly-held companies, particularly the Fortune 1000 companies, are often easiest to evaluate because there is ample and reliable evaluation information available from readily available audited financial statements that have been prepared by generally nationally recognized accounting firms, and from publicly available material on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. And, in many cases, these companies have been “rated” for investment purposes by investment rating services, such as Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s rating services. In addition, valuable credit information can be obtained from companies such as Dun & Bradstreet. Certainly, you will want access to these reports as an equipment lessor.

To give you an idea of the various aspect of the credit evaluation process, let’s take a look at the criteria used in a simple credit evaluation--that for a small business prospective lessee. These “credits” are some of the hardest to evaluate.

The following criteria are ones actually used by a small ticket lessor whose equipment lease transactions range from $5,000 to $250,000 might be as follows:

•​Minimum Time In Business. The applicant must have a minimum verifiable time in business of 2 years. Three years is required in the case of applications over $25,000 and 4 years in the case of applications over $100,000.

•​Existing Banking Relationship. The applicant must have a business bank relationship of at least 2 years and the bank account must show a minimum low four figure average balance. In the case of transactions exceeding $25,000, the minimum average account balance must be in the low five figures. There cannot be any overdrafts or check returns for insufficient funds.

•​Trade References. The applicant must provide three significant trade references, each of whose relationship goes back at least six months. COD trade references will not be acceptable.

•​Good Personal Credit. Personal credit reports must be forthcoming from the owners of the business that contain no derogatory information.

•​Financial Statements. In today’s environment, typically leasing companies only require financial statements to be supplied for transactions exceeding $100,000 or more. Current assets must exceed current liabilities and there is often a requirement that a minimum equity of a certain pre-determined amount must be present.

6.​Assessing Leasing Business Risks

As with any other business activity, there are unique business risks in equipment leasing that you must consider. The reader is referred to Chapter 9 for a discussion of investment risk in leveraged lease transactions. The risks are similar in non-leveraged lease transactions. In addition to these risk, you must be prepared to deal with prospective lessee fraud, something that exists, and something that can be minimized with a careful credit and business analysis of each prospective lessee. An experienced leasing credit person will be invaluable in preventing a credit fraud.

7.​Administrative Issues.

Whether you intend to enter the leasing business as a lease broker or a principal lessor, you must establish the necessary administrative mechanics to carry out all aspects of your leasing operation. And that includes, credit review processing, document processing and review, security interest filings, tracking and payment of state sales and use taxes, rent invoicing, on-going marketing of existing customers for new business, new prospect marketing, collection, accounting, equipment repossession, and lawsuit initiation and monitoring. There is a variety of computer software available today that can facilitate many of the tracking and processing activities, such as, for example, lessor rent pricing, and invoicing.

8.​Legal, Tax, and Accounting Implications

Every lease transaction has tax and accounting implications to the leasing company which can vary depending on changes in the business aspects of a lease transactions. For example, offering a $1 purchase option at the end of a lease term changes the lease from a true lease for income tax purposes, where the lessor is entitled to claim equipment depreciation, and, if available, any investment tax credits, to a conditional sale, where the “lessor” is deemed to be an equipment lender, and, thereby, not entitled to the equipment ownership tax benefits.

The characterization of your lease investments for accounting purposes can affect your financial statements. Your accountant must be brought into your early consideration discussions to assist you in understanding the financial reporting effect various lease structures will have on your existing business, or in financial presentations to your shareholders or investors.

There are a variety of legal considerations, in addition to the documentation of a lease transaction. For example, you will have to consider qualifying to do business in the various states you intend to do lease business, otherwise, at a minimum, the courts in the states you did not so qualify, will not be available to you in the event you need to sue a defaulting lessee. And the various state laws must be checked to determine what statutory language, if any, must be included in your lease agreement and what, if any, state licensing requirements may be necessary. You lawyer will be instrumental in bringing the legal considerations into focus for your particular business.

9.​Lease Documentation

The strength of your leasing documentation can make a major business difference in your early success, and in your ability to collect from a defaulting lessee. If, for example, you intend to assign your lease as security for equipment loans, the lease agreement must contain effective assignment clauses, as well as other effective provisions. If the lessee defaults, you will have trouble collecting remaining rents due unless your lease agreement has a hell or high water provision. The reader is referred to Chapter 3 for a discussion of lessor assignment, and hell or high water, provisions.

Putting a good lease agreement together may take some time and requires an investment for an attorney’s advice. Investing thousands or even millions of dollars using a lease you’ve copied form another lessor can be penny-wise and pound-foolish.

E.​Leasing Offers Equipment Vendors a Marketing Edge

Ask any product marketing person and he or she will tell you that the easier it is for a customer to financially acquire a new product, the easier it is for the prospective customer to make an acquisition decision--and the shorter the sale cycle. The shorter the sale cycle, the less chance of losing an equipment sale to a competitor.

Studies show that 9 out of 10 companies now lease equipment. So, if you have lease financing available at the time you make a product sales presentation, your chances are increased of making the sale. The real question, then, for a product vendor is how to set up the most effective customer financing program--and a key aspect of that decision is whether it should work with a third-party lessor or set up its own captive leasing operation.

1.​What Are Internal Business Capabilities?

A product vendor’s first step in setting up an effective customer equipment financing program is to take into account its equipment leasing management, operational, and financial capabilities, as well as its leasing operation interests. Depending on the answer, the product vendor will pursue establishing its own equipment financing activity, possibly setting up a captive leasing company, or entering into a relationship with one or more independent leasing companies, something that will be discussed below. Once that decision is made, the next step is to design a customer financing program that will be responsive to prospective customer financing requirements. For example, the credit considerations in approaching small business customer equipment financings will be considerably different than those in approaching Fortune 1000 business customers. Deciding in advance to handle the various requirements is a critical element is maximizing the benefits of offering customer equipment financing. Nothing is more damaging to product marketing than having to go back to a new prospective customer, after offering equipment financing, and stating that the company does not meet the financing requirements of, say, your third-party lessor--particularly when the reason for the turndown was something that another type of lessor would not have objected to.

2.​The Choice Between A Third-Party Lessor and An In-House Financing Setup

As a general rule, having an in-house financing capability, such as a captive leasing company, is the best choice for obvious reasons--you control the financing decision, and the lease documentation. In addition, an in-house leasing capability is the right choice if you want to have any assurance that the most effective type of financing program possible--one tailored to fit your particular type of customer’s needs--is in place. However, as a general rule, for equipment vendors without financial and operational expertise, good leasing company management, and available, competitive funding, the better choice is often to set up an equipment leasing program for prospective customers using outside lessors.

Whether a product vendor’s decision is to set up its own internal financing capability, or to use outside leasing companies to service their customer’s financing needs, for the financing program to work effectively, the funding must be reliable and readily available to every type of prospective vendor customer conceivable possible. This is particularly important consideration when working with a third-party leasing company. Merely providing a prospective equipment customer with the name of an equipment leasing company to talk to is not enough. And relying solely on the leasing company to properly put together the equipment financing has its risks. In such a situation, a product vendor must have substantial input into, and understanding of, the credit decisions and documentation processing.

Observation: If the decision is to rely on third-party leasing companies to satisfy equipment sales financing needs, one critical point must be kept in mind: If the success of the equipment sales effort depends heavily on customer product financing, a product vendor cannot rely on one outside funding relationship. There have been many situations in which both bank-affiliated and non-bank leasing companies have closed their funding doors without warning and, at times, with indifference to customer commitments.

3.​Establishing Overall Financing Programs Objectives

The overall objectives for an effective equipment financing program are obvious, yet time and time again they are frequently forgotten in the rush to put business on the books. For example, everyone agrees that maintaining good customer relations is essential, yet many equipment vendors overlook the fact that once a third-party leasing company is involved that may be out of their control. One major U.S. leasing company was well known for aggressively and effectively establishing relationships with equipment vendors. And their customer service/administration department equally well known for aggressively, and inadvertently, damaging customer relationships through inattention and indifference.

Here are the overall guidelines to follow if you’re considering establishing an equipment financing program. A vendor equipment financing program must:

•​Preserve at all times good customer relations.

•​Allow the product vendor to control its customer relationships.

•​Avoid the whims of individual financing sources.

•​Give the impression of financing continuity.

•​Be totally reliable under all circumstances.

In order to achieve your financing objectives, you’ll want to:

a. Consider Establishing Your Own Financing Company. Although setting up a financing subsidiary may be difficult, doing this properly can go a long way to providing a significant competitive marketing advantage. This can be done in many ways. For example, if you feel you do not have financial resources or management available to run a leasing operation, or would prefer not to operate a financing company, explore other similar alternatives in which you can maximize control, such as setting up a financing joint venture with an experienced lessor.

b. Establish Multiple Funding Relationships. If You Decide to Work With Third-Party Lessors. If establishing your own financing company is not feasible or desirable, and you are going to set up a third-party leasing program for your customers, establish relationships with more than one lessor. Relying on one lessor to service all potential customers’ needs is often unrealistic for many reasons. One lessor’s credit standards may not be broad enough to fit your prospective customer profile, something you may not discover until you run into a problem which cannot be anticipated, or lessor business changes could put an end to your customer program virtually overnight. Historically, for example, some bank affiliated and non-bank leasing companies have closed their funding doors without warning and, at times, with indifference to customer commitments. So, establishing multiple funding relationships is essential--and working with at least three lease financing companies is recommended.

In establishing third-party lessor funding relationships, here are some tips:

•​Control The Document Process. To ensure every transaction that can get done gets done, make sure you control the deal documentation, and that means:

1.​Develop Uniform Lease Documentation. Developing one set of lease documents generally acceptable to all funding sources is an important marketing step. If a deal is turned down by one lessor, documents don’t have to be re-signed to use another funding source, saving time and possible embarrassment.

2.​Handle Documents. Handling the lease application and documentation process is important. This ensures problems will be properly addressed in a timely manner. For example, your sales person should prepare the lease application and documents, submit them to the leasing company and monitor the transaction weekly, or, if necessary, every several days.

•​Be Wary of Funding Commitments. Even if you have what appears to be a written commitment to fund customers that meet certain financial and business standards from a third-party leasing company, you may have no assurance of funding reliability. These commitments are typically filled with qualifications, properly so from the lessor’s viewpoint, and are rarely legally enforceable.

•​Avoid Providing Financial Guarantees. Be careful about providing financing guarantees for customer leases requested by third-party lessors. It’s not unusual, for example, for a leasing company to suggest that if your company would guarantee all your customer leases, deals would always get done. Financial guarantees can adversely a product vendor’s general growth requirement borrowing capabilities. Worse yet, many lease guarantees permit collection from the guarantor without having first exhausted all remedies against the lessee.

•​Investigate Prospective Third-Party Lessor Backgrounds Thoroughly. The financial backgrounds, years in business, and deal track records of every third-party leasing company you consider must be investigated thoroughly. Not doing so can create avoidable risks. For example, many leasing companies simply don’t have the funds available to properly service a vendor’s repeated financing needs. An investigation can prevent unfortunate surprises.

•​Use Lease Brokers Cautiously. Lease brokers have no control over whether a deal will be approved or funded. They often send financing packages out to multiple sources hoping someone will approve it. In small transactions some brokers spend more time sending financing offerings to sources than preparing a good financing package. Improper packaging alone can result in turndown, something that increases the difficulty of finding future funding.

•​If Using Lease Brokers Watch Out For Fees. Lease brokers often charge a high fee for their services. In large transactions they generally are worth the fee, in small transactions high fees are generally unwarranted. When questioned about a high fee, brokers often state, that the lessor pays the fee so you should not be concerned. The fact is a lessor needs a minimum deal profit and the fee is something it pays based upon the rent level. The higher the fee, the less competitive the lease financing. And brokers often establish a rent level that permits the largest possible fee.

•​Be Skeptical About Dealing With Lease Investment Funds. Lease investment funds promoted by investment bankers and lessors surface from time to time. They are public or private limited investment partnerships which raise money to invest in equipment leases. Historically, many have had problems as a result of poor management or improper structuring. And when problems arise funding is cut-off. So, if you decide to work with an investment fund, do not rely on it exclusively for customer funding.

•​When Working With Third-Party Lessors, Conduct Preliminary Funding Reviews. When using third-party leasing companies to provide customer financing, an equipment vendor should conduct its own preliminary “lease acceptability review” before submitting a transaction to the prospective leasing company to head off problems. Very often issues that could result in a turndown can be addressed to facilitate an approval before the application is submitted. Once a prospective customer is turned down by one leasing company, it is more difficult to get a funding approval from another lessor The reason may not be logical, but it is a fact of business life--credit managers at times turn down business they may otherwise accept merely because they’re afraid another credit manager spotted a problem they couldn’t find.

In summary, there is a customer financing program structure that can work for every equipment vendor, but care must be taken to guarantee that the best possible program is put together. A vendor that works within the financial market realities has the greatest chance of arranging an attractive and reliable financing program.

F.​Summary

Entering the equipment leasing business has benefits, but only if your or your company has a market value-added reason for being in the leasing business. If your company has such a reason, take the time to carefully evaluate all aspects of leasing as it may affect your potential operations.

c35Z

CHAPTER 11

Equipment Leasing In International Markets

A.​Overview

The subject of international leasing is complex, and a complete analysis is beyond the scope of this book. However, if you’re a part of the leasing business you should understand the basic issues. And if you believe leasing equipment internationally may be a worthwhile business pursuit, an understanding of key considerations will put the issues you or your company may have to address into a quick business perspective and assist you in assessing whether the subject merits further investigation.

You may have heard that there are many exciting opportunities in the international leasing market. That is true--but only for financially well-qualified and lease transaction-sophisticated entrants, as you’ll realize as you read this chapter.

B.​A Complex Market of Growth

There has been a dramatic growth in recent years in the demand for the leasing of equipment overseas not only in the industrialized countries, but also in the industrially developing economies, such as China, Korea, and India. This demand has provided unprecedented and major leasing opportunities for U.S. lessors. But, there are many business hurdles to overcome--and risks to address--in what is commonly referred to as “cross-border” leasing.

International leasing brings with it complex tax, accounting, and legal issues. And more. For example, an international lessor must address:

•​Business considerations unique to the particular country in which the lease transaction is done, such as restricted availability of local courts for lease enforcement procedures

•​Foreign currency exchange risks

•​Possible equipment export issues

Accordingly, the lessors best able to take full advantage of the rising equipment financing needs abroad are those with strong financial capabilities and support resources, such as large multi-national equipment financing companies with networks of affiliated leasing companies in various international markets.

Tips:

•​Equipment leasing associations exist in many foreign countries, such as the Leasing Associates of Singapore. If you’re interested in exploring international leasing in particular markets, they can assist you in identifying local leasing companies to work with, for example, for transaction referrals. They also can provide invaluable advice about local business and legal issues that will impact your company, as well as any lease transactions that you do in their country.

•​The World Leasing Yearbook, published by Euromoney Yearbooks, is an excellent source of international leasing company information. The 2014 edition includes unique data on market volume and growth by region, including a ranking of the top 50 leasing markets by size and provides a listing of 5,000 companies and approximately 7,000 contacts from all sectors of the industry. It’s also provides a handy summary of the leasing business in many foreign countries.

C.​The Foreign Lessee Demand

For a foreign lessee, leasing from a U.S. lessor generally has the same type of traditional lease advantages that a U.S. lessee could expect. A discussion of these traditional lessee leasing advantages is in Chapter 1. There, however, may be additional advantages. In many countries, local circumstances can add substantially to the attractiveness of leasing from an international lessor. For example:

•​If available local funding is expensive, or capital is unavailable or in short supply, the ability to obtain a cross-border lease can be the deciding factor in whether or not to acquire new equipment.

•​There are times when a foreign country’s lenders are unwilling to provide medium or longterm financing because of economic instability, but international lessors are willing to do so, because:

1.​They want additional business, or

2.​Their lease investments are more risk diversified--with relatively little local investment concentration in the country in question.

Make no mistake, however, the prospective foreign lessee’s decision to enter into a cross-border lease is still primarily a cost decision--there generally must be a clear cost advantage over other financing alternatives. In addition, the lease terms and conditions may have to be better than those available locally.

D.​Advantages for Lessors Leasing Internationally

The United States domestic market, as discussed in Chapter 12, is highly competitive, and currently there is more lessor money available than there are lease deals to do. As a result, some U.S. lessors, in an effort to develop new sources of business, have moved aggressively into the international leasing market for opportunities, finding a particularly high demand for equipment financing in the economically emerging countries, such as China. International leasing interests U.S. lessors for another significant reason: There are possibilities for increased economic lease returns through the use of:

•​Subsidized export financing

•​Tax benefits not available to a local foreign financing company

In fact, in some cases, cross-border leases enable lessees and lessors to avail themselves of tax advantages that exist in more than one country--through so-called “double dip” lease transactions. These added tax benefits can either make lease pricing more aggressive, or increase a lessor’s economic return.

Observation: Although there may be relatively more opportunities for equipment leasing abroad than in the United States, it is still a competitive market, with large multi-national finance companies having a substantial foothold in the virtually every significant foreign market.

For U.S. equipment manufacturers and vendors looking for increased export business, the ability to lease internationally has marketing advantages. Being able to provide leasing to prospective customers in foreign countries may facilitate foreign equipment sales.

Recommendation: Equipment manufacturers not familiar with the business of international equipment leasing should work with multi-national third-party leasing companies, at least in beginning stages of leasing internationally. This is the easiest and most cost-effective way to gain the necessary financing knowledge and experience, and to avoid the many pitfalls associated with foreign market leasing.

E.​Risks Of Operating In Foreign Markets

There are a number of risks that a U.S. lessor faces in cross-border leasing that are not present in domestic leasing. The political risk is the most obvious one, and has wide-ranging ramifications for an international lessor. If, for instance, foreign relations fall apart between the U.S. and the country where the equipment or parties are located, there could be a variety of serious problems, including an inability to collect rent and repossess equipment. In addition, if a lessee pays rent in a foreign currency, there could be a transaction profit deterioration if an adverse change in the currency exchange rate occurs.

Even if political relations remain stable with the country in which the foreign lessee is located, there are risks, such as:

•​The long-term nature of the typical equipment lease can subject a lessor to an undue currency exchange fluctuation risks

Tip: There are methods to hedge against the currency fluctuation risk. Investment bankers can often provide guidance in how to handle this risk.

•​Certain foreign economies are well known for volatile interest rate and economic fluctuations, which may adversely affect the lease transaction

•​Assessing the creditworthiness of a prospective lessee is more difficult, with a possibility of making a credit decision mistake, because company financial statements and presentations may be quite different than that of U.S. companies

•​The business risks are greater than leasing in the U.S. market, if for no other reason than the leased equipment is in a distinct land

•​Leasing-related laws in the international environment are constantly changing

•​Foreign laws, or judicial systems, may make it difficult to repossess equipment form a defaulting lessee.

•​The expenses involved in putting together an international lease are typically higher than that of a comparable U.S. lease transaction, and, thus, the potential for financial loss is increased if the transaction falls apart during the negotiation stage

•​The language barrier, even with local counsel involved, can create basic misunderstandings that may not be discovered until there is a problem

•​An inadvertent violation of local social customs may result in inter-personnel disharmony and mistrust--and eventual business problems

Properly evaluating these risks takes considerable work, and experienced assistance is critical in determining the extent to which they exist, and how to best handle them.

1.​Country Risk Management

Commonly referred to as the “country risk,” international lessors must contend with the possibility that events, totally or partially within the control of the foreign lessee’s government, such as war; or the government’s expropriation of the leased asset, the cancellation of the lessor’s export or import license, or the interference with the lessor’s ability to repossess equipment in the case of a lessee default, will result in the loss of some or all of their lease investment.

In certain situations, the country risk can be successfully managed. If the leased equipment will be imported into the lessee’s country, some form of guarantee or insurance program may be available through a governmental agency. For example, many governments set up an agency to assist in, or support, the export of products manufactured in their country. The Export-Import Bank of the United States is one such agency set up by the U.S. Government to support the exporting of U.S. products. Eximbank, as it is generally referred to, directly, and through its agent the Foreign Credit Insurance Association, offers a number of product export support programs that, for example, can reduce political and commercial risks product exporters, lenders or lessors may be exposed to in a foreign locale. The support programs can in effect provide guarantees against loss from specified political and commercial risks, and carry the full faith and credit of the government of the United States.

Recommendation: Contact the Export-Import Bank of the United States’ Washington, DC office and the Foreign Credit Insurance Association’s (FICA) New York City office for information on what support programs they offer and how they work; including to whom they are available and what they cover.

Very briefly, here’s what you can generally expect to find in Eximbank and FICA program offerings:

•​Guarantees of, or insurance for, equipment residual values are not available.

•​Insurance against the expropriation of leased or financed equipment is available.

•​New and used equipment can be covered

•​Programs are available for both United States and non-United States lessors if the equipment under lease is manufactured in United States.

•​Guarantees are available for up to 100% of the principal portion of lease payments, and a certain portion of the interest portion of such lease payments

•​Protection against currency fluctuation risk is not available.

•​In certain situations, the lessee may be required to make a 15% advance payment to the lessor 15% when the equipment delivers.

•​Program coverage is available for specified short-term leases, as well as long-term leases.

•​The following risks are generally covered:

1.​Political risks, such as war, insurrection, and equipment requisition.

2.​The risk of lease non-payment due to a lessee lease payment default, or insolvency.

3.​The inability to repossess equipment following a lease default due to acts of a local government.

F.​Local Law Considerations

Leasing companies entering a particular foreign market must assess the local law implications for the types of lease transactions they intend to participate in. For example, lessors must determine what local laws and regulations :

•​Will govern their leasing operation, including, what periodic filing requirements may be necessary

•​What penalties may be imposed for failure to comply with local law and regulations

In the United States, there is little regulation and, therefore, penalties are non-existent or of minor concern. In many foreign countries, however, the situation can be dramatically different. In some countries penalties can result in:

•​An inability to use the country’s court system

•​A change in a lease transaction’s taxation

•​Fines

•​Imprisonment.

Some local laws are quite extensive in their regulation of lease transactions, even going as far as dictating the actual terms and conditions of cross-border lease agreements, including how much interest can be charged, how long or how short the lease term can be, and the required or permitted lease payment grace periods.

An important legal consideration that cannot be overlooked for obvious reasons are the creditor rights laws: The rules that govern what a lessor must do to protect and enforce its rights in the lease collateral a country’s local law. To assess these issues, you will have to be thoroughly versed in the applicable bankruptcy or similar creditor rights laws.

Recommendation: There is only one way to adequately protect yourself from local laws problems: For each transaction, hire competent local counsel in each jurisdiction in which the equipment and transaction parties are located.

And finally, as part of your local law due diligence, you must also check to see if any treaties exist with the country you intend to do business in that can affect tax or other aspects of the lease transaction.

G.​The International Lease Documents

The international lease documentation used by U.S. lessors is often based on the documentation used in sophisticated U.S. style leveraged leases. (For basic provisions in a lease generally, the reader is referred to the lease documentation discussion in Chapters 3 & 4.) However, it should go without saying, the lease documentation must incorporate provisions and protections necessary for doing business in a foreign locale.

There is only way to competently approach proper lease document drafting--you must enlist the aid of competent and experienced international U.S. leasing counsel and foreign local counsel. In any event, at a bare minimum, you’ll want to be particularly careful that:

•​You have a non-cancelable, or “hell or high-water,” lease, one in which the lessee to specifically required to make all the rental payments due under the lease without abatement, reduction, or set-off.

•​You have not inadvertently relinquished legal title to the asset under lease. This may require a careful review of applicable laws to ensure that the you, as lessor, have good title at the start of the lease, and that you have adequate protection against the potential claims by any lessee creditor or other third-party during the lease term.

•​The manner in which rent payments are made, including the currency of payment, fits your currency exchange requirements. That means, for example, inserting provisions that detail what happens if there is a currency exchange rate fluctuation, or the lessee is not permitted by law to make the lease payments as prescribed by the lease agreement.

•​You’ve considered more stringent maintenance and repair duties, and lease reporting requirements (Travel costs and distance may make it prohibitive to conduct on-site reviews and inspections.). For example, it is often advisable to include in the lease an expanded maintenance provision that incorporates in detail the maintenance standards suggested by the equipment manufacturer.

•​There is no necessity for setting up a maintenance reserve account to cover, for example, repairs that the lessee fails to perform, or performs inadequately.

•​Comprehensive tax indemnification provisions that cover all expected tax advantages have been incorporated. Typically, the tax aspects of a cross-border lease are crucial to the economic viability of the lease transaction, and very complex. In addition there is the ever-present possibility that the applicable tax laws may change to the detriment of a lessor after the lease is signed. Accordingly, these tax indemnification provisions must spell out in great detail all lessor tax benefits anticipated, and the obligations of the lessee in the event that some or all of these benefits are lost, or otherwise unavailable.

•​Whether any applicable commercial laws governing the sale of goods create any implied equipment or other warranties that run to the lessee from you as lessor merely because you are the equipment title holder. In the United States, a lessor is generally able to effectively avoid any such implied warranties by using disclaimer language prescribed by the Uniform Commercial Code laws.

•​The method of dealing with any required withholding taxes under local law, such as a requirement that 15% of each rental payment be withheld and remitted to the local taxing authority, is addressed and handled properly. Typically, any required withholding tax payments are responsibility of the lessor, and the lessee is deemed to be the government’s agent for their collection and payment. If the lessee fails to make these payments, the government will go after the lessor to collect. And, in this case, without a specific provision in the lease agreement for this, the lessor may have no recourse for reimbursement against the lessee. A lease provision, therefore, that spells out that payment for any such withholding taxes is the lessee’s responsibility, exactly how much the lessee must pay, when payment must be made, and to whom it is to be made is essential.

•​There are representation and warranties specific to your particular lease transaction, such as that proper equipment import or governmental authorizations have been obtained. If, for example, proper governmental authorizations have not been obtained, and the lease contained a representation that they had been obtained, or none were necessary, a lessor has the power to move quickly to minimize the potential for loss from potential adverse government actions by calling a lease default, and repossessing the equipment.

•​The remedies available in the event of a lease default are adequate, and not overreaching. The area of lease default is one that requires careful attention. As a general rule, at a minimum, the lessor’s default remedies should conform with any specific remedies available to a lessor under the applicable foreign law. In addition, care must be taken that any additional ones do not run afoul of accepted rules of fairness, otherwise they, or, possibly, the lessor’s entire rights against the lessee, may be subject to attack under the local laws by lessee’s counsel for being, say, unconscionable, or against public policy.

•​Casualty and third-party insurance provisions provide what you need. Clearly, this is a critical aspect of an equipment lease, and an insurance company thoroughly familiar with insurance coverage available in the foreign local must be consulted.

•​There are effective lessor lease assignment rights. Local law must be checked to ensure any there are no assignment restrictions, and also to determine whether or not any type of assignment could result in the obligation to pay a transfer or registration fee or tax.

•​There are necessary assignment restrictions on the lessee. You, as lessor, do not want the lease to end up in the hands of someone that could jeopardize your lease security or rights.

•​You have considered incorporating an arbitration provision to settle disputes to avoid being tied up in local courts. Although an arbitration requirement may not be enforceable under a particular local law if a lessee chooses not to go along with it, having one is recommended. Arbitration is generally a less costly and faster procedure than litigation.

•​You have designated which country’s law will govern the lease transaction. Care, however, must be taken to ensure that any choice of law will be enforceable under local law.

H.​The Uniform International Lease Rules

In an attempt to address the many complex issues surrounding equipment leasing in the international market, and in support of the growing interest in this form of financing in various nations, the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, formerly an affiliate of the League of Nations, but now an independent international organization located in Rome, Italy, caused the formation of a study group in 1977 consisting of legal and financial experts to review international leasing and put together a set of uniform rules that would eliminate many uncertainties. The study group’s efforts ultimately resulted in the unanimous adoption by the representatives of 55 nations gathered in Ottawa, Canada in May of 1988 of a comprehensive set of international leasing rules. The promulgated rules were subject to ratification by all represented nations

Subsequently, and to date, there have been four additional instruments on leasing promulgated under the auspices of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law: the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment (Cape Town, November 16, 2001);the Protocol to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment Specific to Aircraft Equipment (Cape Town, November 16, 2001); the Protocol to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment on matters Specific to Railway Rolling Stock (Luxembourg, February 23, 2007) and the Model Law on Leasing (Rome, November 13, 2008) which the reader is referred to for greater depth on international law on leasing. .

The final text of the Unidroit Convention on International Financial Leasing is as follows:

UNIDROIT CONVENTION ON
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL LEASING

(Ottawa, 28 May 1988)

THE STATES PARTIES TO THIS CONVENTION,

RECOGNIZING the importance of removing certain legal impediments to the international financial leasing of equipment, while maintaining a fair balance of interests between the different parties to the transaction,

AWARE of the need to make international financial leasing more available,

CONSCIOUS of the fact that the rules of law governing the traditional contract of hire need to be adapted to the distinctive triangular relationship created by the financial leasing transaction,

RECOGNIZING therefore the desirability of formulating certain uniform rules relating primarily to the civil and commercial law aspects of international financial leasing,

HAVE AGREED as follows:

CHAPTER I - SPHERE OF APPLICATION AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1

1.​This Convention governs a financial leasing transaction as described in paragraph 2 in which one party (the lessor),

(a)​on the specifications of another party (the lessee), enters into an agreement (the supply agreement) with a third party (the supplier) under which the lessor acquires plant, capital goods or other equipment (the equipment) on terms approved by the lessee so far as they concern its interests, and

(b)​enters into an agreement (the leasing agreement) with the lessee, granting to the lessee the right to use the equipment in return for the payment of rentals.

2.​The financial leasing transaction referred to in the previous paragraph is a transaction which includes the following characteristics:

(a)​the lessee specifies the equipment and selects the supplier without relying primarily on the skill and judgment of the lessor;

(b)​the equipment is acquired by the lessor in connection with a leasing agreement which, to the knowledge of the supplier, either has been made or is to be made between the lessor and the lessee; and

(c)​the rentals payable under the leasing agreement are calculated so as to take into account in particular the amortization of the whole or a substantial part of the cost of the equipment.

3.​This Convention applies whether or not the lessee has or subsequently acquires the option to buy the equipment or to hold it on lease for a further period, and whether or not for a nominal price or rental.

4.​This Convention applies to financial leasing transactions in relation to all equipment save that which is to be used primarily for the lessee’s personal, family or household purposes.

Article 2

In the case of one or more sub-leasing transactions involving the same equipment, this Convention applies to each transaction which is a financial leasing transaction and is otherwise subject to this Convention as if the person from whom the first lessor (as defined in paragraph 1 of the previous article) acquired the equipment were the supplier and as if the agreement under which the equipment was so acquired were the supply agreement.

Article 3

1.​This Convention applies when the lessor and the lessee have their places of business in different States and:

(a)​those States and the State in which the supplier has its place of business are Contracting States; or

(b)​both the supply agreement and the leasing agreement are governed by the law of a Contracting State.

2.​A reference in this Convention to a party’s place of business shall, if it has more than one place of business, mean the place of business which has the closest relationship to the relevant agreement and its performance, having regard to the circumstances known to or contemplated by the parties at any time before or at the conclusion of that agreement.

Article 4

1.​The provisions of this Convention shall not cease to apply merely because the equipment has become a fixture to or incorporated in land.

2.​Any question whether or not the equipment has become a fixture to or incorporated in land, and if so the effect on the rights inter se of the lessor and a person having real rights in the land, shall be determined by the law of the State where the land is situated.

Article 5

1.​The application of this Convention may be excluded only if each of the parties to the supply agreement and each of the parties to the leasing agreement agree to exclude it.

2.​Where the application of this Convention has not been excluded in accordance with the previous paragraph, the parties may, in their relations with each other, derogate from or vary the effect of any of its provisions except as stated in Articles 8 (3) and 13 (3)(b) and (4).

Article 6

1.​In the interpretation of this Convention, regard is to be had to its object and purpose as set forth in the preamble, to its international character and to the need to promote uniformity in its application and the observance of good faith in international trade.

2.​Questions concerning matters governed by this Convention which are not expressly settled in it are to be settled in conformity with the general principles on which it is based or, in the absence of such principles, in conformity with the law applicable by virtue of the rules of private international law.

CHAPTER II - RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE PARTIES

Article 7

1.(a)​The lessor’s real rights in the equipment shall be valid against the lessee’s trustee in bankruptcy and creditors, including creditors who have obtained an attachment or execution.

(b)​For the purposes of this paragraph “trustee in bankruptcy” includes a liquidator, administrator or other person appointed to administer the lessee’s estate for the benefit of the general body of creditors.

2.​Where by the applicable law the lessor’s real rights in the equipment are valid against a person referred to in the previous paragraph only on compliance with rules as to public notice, those rights shall be valid against that person only if there has been compliance with such rules.

3.​For the purposes of the previous paragraph the applicable law is the law of the State which, at the time when a person referred to in paragraph 1 becomes entitled to invoke the rules referred to in the previous paragraph, is :

(a)​in the case of a registered ship, the State in which it is registered in the name of the owner (for the purposes of this sub-paragraph a bareboat charterer is deemed not to be the owner);

(b)​in the case of an aircraft which is registered pursuant to the Convention on International Civil Aviation done at Chicago on 7 December 1944, the State in which it is so registered;

(c)​in the case of other equipment of a kind normally moved from one State to another, including an aircraft engine, the State in which the lessee has its principal place of business;

(d)​in the case of all other equipment, the State in which the equipment is situated.

4.​Paragraph 2 shall not affect the provisions of any other treaty under which the lessor’s real rights in the equipment are required to be recognized.

5.​This article shall not affect the priority of any creditor having:

(a)​a consensual or non-consensual lien or security interest in the equipment arising otherwise than by virtue of an attachment or execution, or

(b)​any right of arrest, detention or disposition conferred specifically in relation to ships or aircraft under the law applicable by virtue of the rules of private international law.

Article 8

1.(a)​Except as otherwise provided by this Convention or stated in the leasing agreement, the lessor shall not incur any liability to the lessee in respect of the equipment save to the extent that the lessee has suffered loss as the result of its reliance on the lessor’s skill and judgment and of the lessor’s intervention in the selection of the supplier or the specifications of the equipment.

(b)​The lessor shall not, in its capacity of lessor, be liable to third parties for death, personal injury or damage to property caused by the equipment.

(c)​The above provisions of this paragraph shall not govern any liability of the lessor in any other capacity, for example as owner.

2.​The lessor warrants that the lessee’s quiet possession will not be disturbed by a person who has a superior title or right, or who claims a superior title or right and acts under the authority of a court, where such title, right or claim is not derived from an act or omission of the lessee.

3.​The parties may not derogate from or vary the effect of the provisions of the previous paragraph in so far as the superior title, right or claim is derived from an intentional or grossly negligent act or omission of the lessor.

4.​The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 shall not affect any broader warranty of quiet possession by the lessor which is mandatory under the law applicable by virtue of the rules of private international law.

Article 9

1.​The lessee shall take proper care of the equipment, use it in a reasonable manner and keep it in the condition in which it was delivered, subject to fair wear and tear and to any modification of the equipment agreed by the parties.

2.​When the leasing agreement comes to an end the lessee, unless exercising a right to buy the equipment or to hold the equipment on lease for a further period, shall return the equipment to the lessor in the condition specified in the previous paragraph.

Article 10

1.​The duties of the supplier under the supply agreement shall also be owed to the lessee as if it were a party to that agreement and as if the equipment were to be supplied directly to the lessee. However, the supplier shall not be liable to both the lessor and the lessee in respect of the same damage.

2.​Nothing in this article shall entitle the lessee to terminate or rescind the supply agreement without the consent of the lessor.

Article 11

The lessee’s rights derived from the supply agreement under this Convention shall not be affected by a variation of any term of the supply agreement previously approved by the lessee unless it consented to that variation.

Article 12

1.​Where the equipment is not delivered or is delivered late or fails to conform to the supply agreement:

(a)​the lessee has the right as against the lessor to reject the equipment or to terminate the leasing agreement; and

(b) the lessor has the right to remedy its failure to tender equipment in conformity with the supply agreement as if the lessee had agreed to buy the equipment from the lessor under the same terms as those of the supply agreement.

2.​A right conferred by the previous paragraph shall be exercisable in the same manner and shall be lost in the same circumstances as if the lessee had agreed to buy the equipment from the lessor under the same terms as those of the supply agreement.

3.​The lessee shall be entitled to withhold rentals payable under the leasing agreement until the lessor has remedied its failure to tender equipment in conformity with the supply agreement or the lessee has lost the right to reject the equipment.

4.​Where the lessee has exercised a right to terminate the leasing agreement, the lessee shall be entitled to recover any rentals and other sums paid in advance, less a reasonable sum for any benefit the lessee has derived from the equipment.

5.​The lessee shall have no other claim against the lessor for non-delivery, delay in delivery or delivery of non-conforming equipment except to the extent to which this results from the act or omission of the lessor.

6.​Nothing in this article shall affect the lessee’s rights against the supplier under Article 10.

Article 13

1.​In the event of default by the lessee, the lessor may recover accrued unpaid rentals, together with interest and damages.

2.​Where the lessee’s default is substantial, then subject to paragraph 5 the lessor may also require accelerated payment of the value of the future rentals, where the leasing agreement so provides, or may terminate the leasing agreement and after such termination:

(a)​recover possession of the equipment; and

(b) recover such damages as will place the lessor in the position in which it would have been had the lessee performed the leasing agreement in accordance with its terms.

3.(a)​The leasing agreement may provide for the manner in which the damages recoverable under paragraph 2 (b) are to be computed.

(b)​Such provision shall be enforceable between the parties unless it would result in damages substantially in excess of those provided for under paragraph 2 (b). The parties may not derogate from or vary the effect of the provisions of the present sub-paragraph.

4.​Where the lessor has terminated the leasing agreement, it shall not be entitled to enforce a term of that agreement providing for acceleration of payment of future rentals, but the value of such rentals may be taken into account in computing damages under paragraphs 3(b) and 3. The parties may not derogate from or vary the effect of the provisions of the present paragraph.

5.​The lessor shall not be entitled to exercise its right of acceleration or its right of termination under paragraph 2 unless it has by notice given the lessee a reasonable opportunity of remedying the default so far as the same may be remedied.

6.​The lessor shall not be entitled to recover damages to the extent that it has failed to take all reasonable steps to mitigate its loss.

Article 14

1.​The lessor may transfer or otherwise deal with all or any of its rights in the equipment or under the leasing agreement. Such a transfer shall not relieve the lessor of any of its duties under the leasing agreement or alter either the nature of the leasing agreement or its legal treatment as provided in this Convention.

2.​The lessee may transfer the right to the use of the equipment or any other rights under the teasing agreement only with the consent of the lessor and subject to the rights of third parties.

CHAPTER III - FINAL PROVISIONS

Article 15

1.​This Convention is open for signature at the concluding meeting of the Diplomatic Conference for the Adoption of the Draft Unidroit Conventions on International Factoring and International Financial Leasing and will remain open for signature by all States at Ottawa until 31 December 1990.

2.​This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States which have signed it.

3.​This Convention is open for accession by all States which are not signatory States as from the date it is open for signature.

4.​Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession is effected by the deposit of a formal instrument to that effect with the depository.

Article 16

1.​This Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.

2.​For each State that ratifies, accepts, approves, or accedes to this Convention after the deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, this Convention enters into force in respect of that State on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.

Article 17

This Convention does not prevail over any treaty which has already been or may be entered into; in particular it shall not affect any liability imposed on any person by existing or future treaties.

Article 18

1.​If a Contracting State has two or more territorial units in which different systems of law are applicable in relation to the matters dealt with in this Convention, it may, at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, declare that this Convention is to extend to all its territorial units or only to one or more of them, and may substitute its declaration by another declaration at and time.

2.​These declarations are to be notified to the depository and are to state expressly the territorial units to which the Convention extends.

3.​If by virtue of a declaration under this article, this Convention extends to one or more but not all of the territorial units of a Contracting State, and if the place of business of a party is located in that State, this place of business, for the purposes of this Convention, is considered not to be in a Contracting State, unless it is in a territorial unit to which the Convention extends.

4.​If a Contracting State makes no declaration under paragraph 1, the Convention is to extend to all territorial units of that State.

Article 19

1.​Two or more Contracting States which have the same or closely related legal rules on matters governed by this Convention may at any time declare that the Convention is not to apply where the supplier, the lessor and the lessee have their places of business in those States. Such declarations may be made jointly or by reciprocal unilateral declarations.

2.​A Contracting State which has the same or closely related legal rules on matters governed by this Convention as one or more non-Contracting States may at any time declare that the Convention is not to apply where the supplier, the lessor and the lessee have their places of business in those States.

3.​If a State which is the object of a declaration under the previous paragraph subsequently becomes a Contracting State, the declaration made will, as from the date on which the Convention enters into force in respect of the new Contracting State have the effect of a declaration made under paragraph 1, provided that the new Contracting State joins in such declaration or makes a reciprocal unilateral declaration.

Article 20

A Contracting State may declare at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession that it will substitute its domestic law for Article 8(3) if its domestic law does not permit the lessor to exclude its liability for its default or negligence.

Article 21

1.​Declarations made under this Convention at the time of signature are subject to confirmation upon ratification, acceptance or approval.

2.​Declarations and confirmations of declarations are to be in writing and to be formally notified to the depository.

3.​A declaration takes effect simultaneously with the entry into force of this Convention in respect of the State concerned. However, a declaration of which the depository receives formal notification after such entry into force takes effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of its receipt by the depository. Reciprocal unilateral declarations under Article 19 take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the receipt of the latest declaration by the depository.

4.​Any State which makes a declaration under this Convention may withdraw it at any time by a formal notification in writing addressed to the depository. Such withdrawal is to take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of the receipt of the notification by the depository.

5.​A withdrawal of a declaration made under Article 19 renders inoperative in relation to the withdrawing State, as from the date on which the withdrawal takes effect, any joint or reciprocal unilateral declaration made by another State under that article.

Article 22

No reservations are permitted except those expressly authorized in this Convention.

Article 23

This Convention applies to a financial teasing transaction when the leasing agreement and the supply agreement are both concluded on or after the date on which the Convention enters into force in respect of the Contracting States referred to in Article 3(l)(a), or of the Contracting State or States referred to in paragraph 1(b) of that article.

Article 24

1.​This Convention may be denounced by any Contracting State at any time after the date on which it enters into force for that State.

2.​Denunciation is effected by the deposit of an instrument to that effect with the depository.

3.​A denunciation takes effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the deposit of the instrument of denunciation with the depository. Where a longer period for the denunciation to take effect is specified in the instrument of denunciation it takes effect upon the expiration of such longer period after its deposit with the depository.

Article 25

1.​This Convention shall be deposited with the Government of Canada.

2.​The Government of Canada shall:

(a)​inform all States which have signed or acceded to this Convention and the President of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (Unidroit) of:

(i)​each new signature or deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, together with the date thereof;

(ii)​each declaration made under Articles 18, 19 and 20;

(iii)​the withdrawal of any declaration made under Article 21 (4);

(iv) the date of entry into force of this Convention;

(v)​the deposit of an instrument of denunciation of this Convention together with the date of its deposit and the date on which it takes effect;

(b)​transmit certified true copies of this Convention to all signatory States, to all States acceding to the Convention and to the President of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (Unidroit).

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this Convention.

DONE at Ottawa, this twenty-eighth day of May, one thousand nine hundred and eighty-eight, in a single original, of which the English and French texts are equally authentic.

I.​Summary

There is no doubt that in an expanding global economy, cross-border leasing will continue to expand. And, the job of putting together a cross-border lease will become easier as transaction experience is gained. Leasing equipment internationally however is extremely complex and should not be approached without competent advice.

c3DG

CHAPTER 12

The Equipment Leasing Laws Under the Uniform Commercial Code

A.​Introduction

As an equipment lessor, you must know the state equipment leasing laws, embodied in the various states’ Uniform Commercial Code, to properly draft a lease contract, as well as protect your equipment from lessee creditors and claims. One mistake can be costly. Prospective lessees, on the other hand, must understand these laws because they can be turned to for rights and remedies when problems occur. There are no federal leasing law statues.

It will be useful, before beginning this Chapter, to give you some historical background. Before these leasing laws came into existence, the courts struggled with whether an equipment financing transaction should be characterized as a lease, or as a conditional, or installment, sale for state law purposes. As a result, there was widespread inconsistency and confusion. To address this problem, a drafting committee, called the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, was organized to assemble the best court interpretations of leasing contract law and, once done, this “model” law was sent to the various states (including the District of Columbia) for consideration and enactment into state law. In most cases, the model law, now known as Article 2A of the Uniform Commercial Code (commonly referred to simply as the “UCC”), was adopted with few changes. Very simply, UCC Article 2A resolved the many issues and inconsistencies over lease chacterization by establishing uniform leasing rules. This has clearly benefited all parties to a lease transaction.

In addition to Article 2A, there are two additional and important UCC sections (known as “Articles”) that can impact an equipment financing, Article 2 (Sales), and Article 9 (Secured Transactions; Sales of Accounts and Chattel Paper). These Articles existed prior to the formulation and adoption of Article 2A and were created by National Conference of Commissioners to provide guidance, in part, for commercial and consumer sales, and general financing of personal property. A detailed analysis of UCC Article 2 and Article 9, dealing with the sales of personal property, is beyond the scope of this Chapter since they relate to transactions far beyond equipment lease transactions. We will examine, however, their essential elements so you will have a working knowledge of how they may come into play in an equipment lease situation.

UCC Concepts:

•​The overall intent of the various UCC laws is, in effect, to compile, evolve, and, in certain cases, clarify, the various laws (such as contract law, as interpreted by the US courts) into one cohesive set of rules to eliminate arbitrary, commercially inequitable, and inconsistent court approaches and decisions.

•​The drafters of the various UCC Articles intended that the parties to UCC governed transactions have, with a few exceptions, the freedom to contract as they see fit, permitting the parties to “draft out”, for example, UCC Article provisions.

B.​UCC Article 2, Sales-An Overview

UCC Article 2 establishes the rights and remedies of the parties to a sale transaction. It imposes, for example, certain implied product warranties that a purchaser enforce against a seller of goods, something that financing companies that are not equipment vendors should not have to fairly assume. The best way to put Article 2 into perspective in relation to Article 2A, is to understand how it differs from Article 2A, since Article 2A was, in part, based upon Article 2. Both address personal property, basically parting company in the case where the transaction is a lease financing (governed by Article 2A), as opposed to a straight equipment sale (governed by Article 2).

A few important commercial (non-consumer) differences that Article 2A eliminated from the Article 2 sales rules are:

•​Article 2A eliminated implied equipment warranties of equipment merchantability and fitness for use, existing in Article 2.

•​Article 2A eliminated implied product infringement warranties when the lease qualifies as a “finance lease: under Article 2A.

UCC Article 9, Secured Transactions; Sales of Accounts and Chattel Paper—An Overview

UCC Article 9 governs secured lending transactions, transactions in which the parties intend to create a security interest in the personal property (such as equipment) financed. A security interest is simply an interest in personal property that secures the payment or performance of an obligation. If, for example, a lender loans money to a lessor to enable it to purchase equipment for lease to a lessee (such as in a typical leveraged lease transaction), it will take as collateral for the loan repayment obligations a security interest in the underlying equipment lease and the related equipment. A court would deem this type of lending transaction as governed by the UCC Article 9 rules. UCC Article 9 would also come into play if the lease transaction turns out (even unintended by the parties) to in substance be a secured loan or what is something referred to as a “financing”, such as when the lessee has a one dollar purchase option.

C.​Equipment Leasing Under UCC Article 2A

1.​Overview

As suggested above, a major development in the law of personal property leasing was the approval by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, in 1986, of Article 2A of the Uniform Commercial Code. Article 2A as proposed by the Commissioners has been adopted by the various states (including the District of Columbia), with, in some cases, relatively minor modifications, and sets forth legal guidelines for determining whether a transaction purporting to be a lease is a lease for State law purposes. Very simply, Article 2A is intended to govern the formation, construction and enforceability of equipment lease contracts.

Before Article 2A was enacted by the various states, equipment lease transactions were generally governed under state law by common law principles, UCC Article 2 (Sales), and UCC Article 9 (Secured Transactions). Article 2A has been instrumental in clarifying many personal property leasing issues that had gone unresolved under the various state laws. It has, for example, eliminated ambiguities that arose in determining the rights of equipment lessors and lessees. It established guidelines for determining when an equipment financing transaction was in fact a lease transaction and when it, instead, was a form of conditional sale-type financing (a secured financing transaction that may have looked like a lease transaction, because, for example, the contract was entitled “Equipment Lease Agreement”). Article 2A also spells out the rights an equipment lessor would have against the other lessee creditors.

Key Point: With a few exceptions, the Article 2A provisions can be overridden by agreement between the parties. The exceptions usually relate to matters of public policy, and what would be considered good faith dealings. For issues not addressed by the parties, Article 2A governs. You could say, thus, in a lease transaction that Article 2A’s job is to fill in aspects of the transaction that the parties did not explicitly cover in their contract.

2.​Lease Distinguished from Security Interest

UCC Article 2A, along with Article 2 and Article 9, specifically defines the characteristics of leases, sales and security interests. It is often not easy to determine if the transaction purporting to be a lease qualifying under Article 2A is in fact an Article 2A qualifying lease, or should instead be considered, under state law, a non-lease, or secured, financing. Under Article 2A, a lease is essentially defined as a transfer of the right to possession and use of personal property for a period of time (term) in return for consideration (such as money), unless it is a “sale” or a “security interest”. Typically, the most difficult part in making an assessment is determining whether the transaction is a “security interest.” Although the definition of security interest spells out specific factors that will disqualify a transaction as a lease and cause it to be deemed a security interest, and factors that in and of themselves will not cause a purported lease to in fact be deemed a security interest, the definition also provides that the various transaction “facts and circumstances”, must be considered. The “facts and circumstances” benchmark is subject to interpretation—and thus can create characterization uncertainty.

Under the UCC, lease disqualifying factors that are:

•​The lease term equals or exceeds the remaining useful life of the equipment.

•​The lessee is obligated to become the equipment owner at lease end or must renew the lease for the remaining economic useful life of the equipment.

•​The lessee has the right to renew the equipment for a nominal amount (such as $1) or no additional cost for the equipment’s economic useful life.

•​The lessee has the right to purchase the equipment for a nominal amount (such as $1), or can acquire the equipment without cost.

Factors that in and of themselves will not cause a purported lease transaction to be disqualified as a lease are:

•​The lease is a net or full payout lease.

•​The lease has equipment renewal or purchase options, non-nominal in amount, even if at a fixed price.

•​The lease obligates the lessee to assume certain ownership responsibilities, such as the risk of equipment loss or the obligation to pay taxes, maintenance costs and insurance fees.

•​The present value of the lease amounts to be paid by the lessee is equal to or greater than the fair market value of the equipment.

Without getting too technical, however, as a rule of thumb, if the lessor retains a meaningful economic interest in the end-of-lease (residual) value of the equipment, notwithstanding the lessee’s right to exclusive use (subject to a lessee lease default) of the equipment during the lease term, it is a lease. Otherwise, it will not be so considered, and must be treated as a secured financing, such as a secured loan or an installment sale financing. For example, if the lessee can become the equipment owner for no additional, or nominal, consideration the transaction is not a lease under Article 2A.

An Exception-TRAC Lease

As of 2013, 48 states and the District of Columbia have adopted an exception to the foregoing lease/security interest test criteria for motor vehicle leases with terminal rental adjustment clauses (referred to as TRAC leases). Under a TRAC lease, the lessor has no meaningful economic residual interest in the equipment because the lessee has to pay the lessor for any “shortfall” the lessor incurs in the end-of-lease resale. Under UCC Article 2A, as adopted by those states, the transaction still qualifies as a lease under the state leasing laws. So, for example, a lessor may provide in the lease that its assumed residual is $15,000, and that the lessee must pay the lessor for any shortfall in resale price below $15,000. If the motor vehicle sold for $10,000 at lease end, the lessee would owe the lessor $5000 ($15,000 $-10,000 equals $5000).

3.​Protecting the Lessor’s Equipment Interest

If the transaction qualifies as a lease under Article 2A, the lessor is deemed the equipment owner and no other creditors can successfully claim superior rights to the equipment. If a transaction does not qualify as a lease under Article 2A, and it is deemed to be an equipment financing, it will typically be governed by Article 9 (Secured Transactions), and, possibly, Article 2 (Sales). If the transaction fails to qualify as an Article 2A lease, the Article 9 rules will likely govern and the party designated as the lessor has to generally make certain initial and follow-on document filings (referred to as UCC statement filings), and, possibly, to take certain other actions, to protect its equipment interest against third party creditors of the lessee. Notwithstanding the fact that the lessors under Article 2A qualifying leases need not take any such protective UCC filing action, most lessors, as a matter of course, make what is referred to as an information-only (precautionary) filing using a UCC-1 Financing Statement form, as indicated earlier in this book. Simply, the lessor files a typical UCC-1 financing statement against the lessee, with a notice typed or printed in the body of UCC-1 indicating that it is an information-only filing.

Legal Point: There are no filing requirements provided for under Article 2A if a lease qualifies as a true lease, and not a secured financing. Keep in mind, however, that certificates of title filings may be necessary, such as with automobiles or trucks under the various laws.

4.​What Are the Practical Implications of a Lease being Deemed a Secured Financing?

If a court determines that a transaction purporting to be an equipment lease for state law purposes is in fact a secured financing, UCC Article 9 comes into play. And if the rules of Article 9 are not complied with, a lessor could lose its secured position; that is, its ability to claim a superior right in the equipment over that of other lessee creditors who may have an effective claim to that equipment because of certain security interest rights they have in a lessee’s assets. If this occurs, a court may in effect take the position that, notwithstanding that the agreement is labeled a lease, the transaction is the functional equivalent of an equipment installment or conditional sale or a loan.

Assume for a moment that Able Leasing Company leases a $1,000,000 computer to Process Company for three years. The lease agreement contains an option in which Process Company, if it chooses, can purchase the computer at the end of the lease for $1, whereupon Able Leasing Company would transfer title to the computer to Process Company. Able Leasing Company determined the lease rental rate by assuming that, at lease end, it would have received a full repayment of its $1,000,000 equipment purchase investment and its profit. It’s estimated that the fair market end-of lease value of the computer would be $175,000. Able Leasing Company made no protective UCC filings. Clearly, here, the lessor did not retain a meaningful economic interest (or risk) in the equipment’s residual value, and, undoubtedly, this lease transaction would be interpreted by the courts as a secured financing, subject to UCC Article 9.

Now assume, additionally, that Process Company filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the federal bankruptcy law (referred to as the Bankruptcy Code), a bankruptcy trustee was appointed and the assets of Process Company were to be liquidated (known as a Chapter 7 proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code). (See Chapter 14 for a discussion of the bankruptcy concepts and rules.) Also assume that Process Company’s main lending bank, The Big Bank, had given Process Company a general working capital line of credit, and had secured the repayment of this line of credit by taking a security interest in all assets of Process Company, and had legally placed a lien on all existing and future assets. The Big Bank goes before the trustee and claims that its lien on Processing Company’s assets has attached to the Able Leasing Company owned computer, that the Able Leasing Company Lease was in fact a secured financing and that, since Able Leasing Company did not “perfect” its lien rights to the computer by making an appropriate UCC filing, that The Big Bank “blanket” lien has attached to the computer, giving The Big Bank a prior right in the computer. Able Leasing Company claims that The Big Bank has no claim since it is the titled owner of the computer. Who wins? The answer is: The Big Bank.

If Able Leasing Company had made an information-only UCC filing, the outcome would have been different. Able Leasing Company would then have retained rights in the computer over the claim of The Big Bank.

So, in effect, if a purported lease is deemed to be a secured financing:

•​The lessor’s equipment ownership position may be treated as a subordinated security interest assuming the lessor made no Article 9 UCC filings, giving, other lessee’s creditors who have valid and perfected liens on the lessee’s general assets, if a lessee bankruptcy occurs, the opportunity to make a valid superior claim to the equipment.

•​A bankruptcy trustee may be able to sell the lessor’s equipment free of any lessor rights in the equipment.

In addition:

•​The lessor may come under state usury laws.

•​The lessor may subject itself to certain additional equipment product warranties, notwithstanding lease contract warranty disclaimers.

D.​A Key Lease Concept Under Article 2A—The Finance Lease

In order to recognize the economic and business realties in certain types of equipment financings, the UCC drafters came up with a special category of lease, referred to as a “finance lease”, which has special lessor benefits. In order for a lease to quality as an Article 2A finance lease, and be automatically entitled to the unique benefits offered under Article 2A, the lease has to meet the following criteria:

•​The lessor must not select, manufacture or supply the equipment;

•​The lessor must acquire the equipment in connection with the lease (that means, not out of inventory); and

•​The lessee has to be provided information, before lease execution, about what equipment warranties are provided, who stands behind them and what remedy limitations or modifications exist.

The key advantages for a lessor in having a transaction classified for UCC purposes as an Article 2A statutory finance lease are:

•​There are no lessor-implied equipment warranties of fitness and merchantability, as may be provided in other lease transactions; and

•​The lessee’s rent payment obligation is deemed to be an irrevocable commercial lessee obligation to pay rents; i.e., the rent payment obligation under a lease classified as an Article 2A finance lease is automatically deemed to be a statutory hell or high water obligation (rents are non-cancelable and absolutely and unconditionally payable, and not capable of being offset or otherwise reduced, even though not specifically stated as such in the lease contract).

A key advantage to a lessee in a finance lease transaction is that Article 2A automatically passes through the equipment seller’s warranties (subject to any warranty exclusions) to the lessee.

Lessor Tips:

•​If a lease transaction does not meet the Article 2A finance lease criteria, a lessor can, through proper lease contract drafting, construct the same result by including, for example, equipment warranty disclaimers and a hell or high water lease provision

•​If a hell or high water rent obligation is intended, notwithstanding that the lease transaction apparently qualifies as an Article 2A finance lease, a lessor should NOT reply on the UCC statue to ensure hell or high water rent obligation, in the event that a lessee successfully argues in court that the lease in fact does not qualify under the applicable UCC laws as a statutory finance lease, and, thus, is not entitled to hell or high water rent treatment. So, in drafting a lease a lessor should always include specific hell or high water language.

•​If a lease transaction does not meet the Article 2A finance lease criteria, a lessee may be able to pursue, to the extent the lease contract does not make appropriate equipment warranty disclaimers, equipment warranty claims against the equipment lessor, in addition to the actual equipment vendor.

Lessee Tip:

•​Even if the lease transaction does not apparently qualify as an Article 2A finance lease, a lessee should raise a defense (if the facts so warrant) against any hell or high water rent payment obligation claim by the lessor.

Although Article 2A automatically passes through the equipment seller warranties, a lessee should be cautious by contacting the seller to ensure that the lessor/purchaser may not diminish any warranties that the lessee is relying on. If important, a side letter to that effect is always recommended to avoid any future arguments.

E.​Avoiding Legally Implied Equipment Warranties

An equipment lessor, that is not also an equipment seller, does not want to take on the responsibility of insuring that the equipment performs or meets other suitability standards. Prior to the existence of Article 2A, there was a risk under certain circumstances that, say, a pure finance lessor (a lessor that merely provides equipment funding, and not also an equipment vendor) could be subject to certain implied equipment warranties existing under Article 2 (Sales) that an equipment seller would have under the law to an equipment purchaser. Making matter worse, the courts did not take a consistent approach in the implied warranty area.

Under Article 2A, the however, there is now consistency. If a lease qualifies as an Article 2A finance lease, implied warranties of fitness for a particular purpose and merchantability are (automatically) excluded by law. All other equipment seller product warranties, however, are extended to the seller to the extent of the lessee’s leasehold interest, unless the lease contract arrangement states that these warranties are excluded. Typically, as you will note when you see a net finance lease, financial lessors invariably write leases with warranty disclaimers.

F.​Lessor Lease Remedies Under Article 2A

In a lessee lease default situation, the courts had been uniformly inconsistent, and, at times incorrect, in determining what damages a lessor was entitled to receive. In keeping with its philosophy, Article 2A addressed this critical issue by allowing the lessors and lessees to generally contractually agree in the lease contract on what default and remedy standards would apply. Article 2A did, however, provide safe harbor provisions that would apply if the lease contract default or remedy provisions were either invalid or omitted. Under Article 2A, unless so stated in the lease contract, the lessor:

•​Does not have to give notice of default or enforcement action.

•​Can terminate the lease, repossess the equipment, sell or otherwise dispose of the equipment and recover damages for breach of the contract

Article 2A permits a default liquidated damages provision to include a formula or rather than a dollar amount. The lease contract can provide for default liquidated damages, even though the actual damages resulting from a lessee breach can be accurately determined. The liquidated damages may include the loss of such profit aspects as tax benefits, or anticipated end of lease (residual) value; provided that the liquidated damage amount is reasonable, taking into consideration the anticipated damages to be suffered by the lessor. A typical formula might provide, in addition to allowing claims for past due rent, costs associated with any enforcement and recovery action, such as court cost, storage changes, and remarketing fees and expenses, that the lessor is entitled to claim the present value of the future remaining rents due under the original lease at the time of breach, such present value computed using a discount interest rate of, say 3% per annum, not to exceed the maximum rate permitted by law.

G.​Lessee Lease Remedies Under Article 2A

Article 2A provides for lessee remedies if the lessor is in default under a lease contract, which, unless otherwise “drafted out” of the lease contract, will apply. Depending on the type of breach, for example, the lessee may seek to cancel the lease contract, reject the equipment, revoke its acceptance of the nonconforming equipment, enforce specific performance as to the equipment, seek to recover rents or other payments made (such as a security deposit) or pursue other damages that would typically flow from a contract breach. If the lease, however, is an Article 2A statutory finance lease, the lessee may not cancel the lease, or offset any amounts which may be due lessee against the rents payable. Because of this, typically, lessors add a lease provision in which the lessee waives its Article 2 A remedies.

H.​A Consumer Lease Under Article 2A

Although beyond the scope of this Chapter, it is important to keep in mind that Article 2A makes a distinction between commercial lease transactions and consumer lease transactions, providing for added protections to a consumer lessee. Generally, a consumer lease is defined as “a lease that a lessor regularly engaged in the business of leasing or selling makes to a lessee who is an individual and who takes under the lease primarily for a personal, family, or household purpose.” Under the various state Article 2A enactments, you’ll find, typically, that the total lease contract rent payments, excluding equipment purchase or lease renewal option payments, may not exceed a certain legislature-specified amount.

I.​Summary

As discussed, over the years the courts have often struggled with whether an equipment financing transaction should be characterized as a lease, or as a conditional, or installment, sale for state law purposes. Article 2A of the Uniform Commercial Code was drafted by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, to resolve the many issues and inconsistencies when it was determined that uniformity in leasing rules would clearly benefit all parties to a lease transaction. The Article 2A “model” law was sent to the various states (including the District of Columbia) for consideration and enactment into state law. In most cases, the model law was adopted with few changes. There are no federal leasing law statues. The overall intent of the various UCC laws is, in effect, to compile, evolve, and, in certain cases, clarify, the various United States laws (such as contract law, as interpreted by the US courts) into one cohesive set of rules to eliminate, for example, arbitrary, commercially inequitable, and inconsistent court approaches and decisions. In addition to Article 2A, there are two additional and important UCC Articles that can impact an equipment financing, Article 2 (Sales), and Article 9 (Secured Transactions; Sales of Accounts and Chattel Paper).

c3G9

CHAPTER 13

Equipment Financing Trends–Managed Services and Per Use Agreements

A.​Managed Service and Fee Per Use Agreements—New Equipment Financing Product Trends

Although not a lease contract, equipment provided in connection with what are referred to as managed services agreements (MSAs) is being financed by an increasing number of traditional leasing companies. The MSA is entered into directly between a service provider and a customer and generally provides bundled equipment and services to the customer for an agreed-upon term, ranging from 5 to 20 years. MSAs are often used with energy savings offerings where the service provider provides energy savings equipment and related services, such as maintenance, as well as other collateral services, for a bundled price stated in the MSA itself. Customers often favor MSAs because their payment obligations are generally treated as off-balance sheet obligations and, accordingly, do not adversely affect their financial ratios for borrowing purposes.

It is not unusual for an MSA to explicitly allow the customer to contractually cancel the contract, including, any payment obligations, “for convenience”, after a certain period of time, which may require payment in that case of a liquidated damages fee that allows the service provider to recoup, at a minimum, some or all of any supplied equipment investment. The MSA does not typically contain what is referred to as a hell or high water payment obligation found in net finance leases and, even if it did, its enforceability would be questionable in a bundled offering of equipment, supplies and services. That is, if the service provider breached its contract service obligations, the likelihood of a court enforcing the customer payment obligations, even if assigned to a third-party financing company, is unlikely and, accordingly, any hell or high water provision’s value in an MSA’s terms and conditions would provide little comfort to a third-party financing company looking at financing the equipment on the basis of the customer’s credit through an assignment of any MSA equipment related payment obligations. In fact, for any MSA equipment payment obligations to be financeable, typically any MSA payment assignment must be accompanied by an indemnity from the service provider for any customer challenges to the enforcing of an MSA assigned payment by a third-party financing company because of a customer claim of breach by the service provider of its MSA service obligations. As a result, the equipment provided by these contacts standing on their own is not generally financeable by a third-party financing company on the basis only of the MSA customer’s payment obligations.

Another form of potentially “off balance sheet” contact found in so-called service situations are what are referred to as fee per use agreements. The fee per use contract charges a customer for equipment supplied typically on the basis of equipment use or on the basis of the supplies used to operate the equipment. Typically, the equipment use payments, because of how the payment are structured and computed (discussed below), do not give rise to customer on-balance sheet treatment--thus avoiding the need for recording the agreement payment obligations on its balance sheet as a long-term liability.

A fee per use agreement is not technically a managed services agreement, but, rather, is one often used in conjunction with a separate “services agreement” (sometimes referred to as an “end user agreement”) under which, typically, equipment is provided by a service provider, along with equipment related software, supplies and services, such as maintenance. The fee per use agreement sets out the payment methodology for equipment and services provided by the end user agreement, which may be based on the amount of supplies the customer uses for the equipment operation or upon the number of times the equipment is used to provide an analysis result. A fee per use agreement, which often contains terms and conditions similar to those found in a lease agreement, including a full payment hell or high water payment obligation and equipment insurance requirements, typically has a contract term running from 5 to as long as 10 years. Although a fee per use agreement may contain a hell or high water payment obligation, the hell or high water obligation may be subject to challenge if the services collateral to the equipment are not provided.

B.​How are the Managed Services Agreement and Fee Per Use Agreement Payments Priced?

As suggested above, in some cases the MSA has a bundled price where all listed equipment and services are incorporated into one periodic payment, the total of which covers the service provider’s overhead and invested costs, with a profit. At times the various service components are broken down into separate payment obligations listed for each component. When there is a bundled payment, the service provider hopes to make it difficult, and possibly impossible, for the customer to determine the cost, including any finance charge, on any one item, such as for the equipment, being supplied. And, thus, prevent the customer from easily, if at all, being able to determine whether its offering is competitive.

As alluded to above, fee per use agreements often have obtuse or cleverly disguised charge computations--charges designed to pay the full investment costs, for example, of what is being provided, such as any equipment. For example, it is not unusual for the fee per use agreement to charge a fee based upon each time the equipment is used for, say, a procedure—referred to as a “fee per use” or simply a “fee per” charge. In that case, there are, typically, a minimum number of uses the customer must guarantee to the service provider during the use period—often a minimum monthly charge. The minimum use charge is set in an amount that will pay for the cost of any equipment provided at the start of the contract term and typically will fully amortize the cost of the equipment over the term of the contract. Of course, the service provider must implement a way to measure the periodic minimum uses, often done though equipment embedded software remotely accessed by the service provider. In that case, the customer is also charged for use in excess of the minimum requirement.

It’s not unusual for the fee per use contract minimum to be tied to a “hell or high water” payment commitment, even though, typically under the law, this payment obligation might be subject to challenge if the collateral services provided in the services agreement are not forthcoming or are faulty. The hell or high water payment obligation is an effort to use an approach that works in a lease to assure that the payment obligation can be assigned and used to finance, say, the equipment being provided through a third-party lender or leasing company. As already suggested, many equipment leasing attorneys feel the hell or high water language in a fee per use contract may be subject to challenge and not enforceable if the collateral services are not forthcoming, and, accordingly, other contractual assurances coming from the service provider are often needed to be given if the service provider wants the equipment financed by a third-party financing company, such as an indemnity against non-payment for any service provider’s contract obligation breach, or, even simply, a customer claim of breach.

C.​What is a Typical MAS Structure?

As stated earlier, it is not unusual for energy service companies (commonly referred to as ESCOS) to sell their services through a form of MSA. An ESCO is a non-profit or commercial business that offers to provide a wide range of energy solutions to a customer, including the design and implementation of various energy savings setups, which might include retrofitting existing customer-owned equipment, to provide energy conservation, along with operational management.

The energy savings approaches used by ESCOs are often structured in a way to reduce the energy costs for a customer’s, say, office building. The customer in turn than pays a fee to the ESCO in return for the energy savings, often based on the percentage of savings actually achieved. In some cases, the ESCO will guarantee that the energy savings will be greater by a certain amount than the fee payable to the ESCO. These energy savings approaches are often provided through a variety of innovative financing structures in MSAs, which are often, in effect, off-balance sheet offerings that provide the necessary energy savings equipment.

The MSA fee charged by the ESCO is based upon a detailed analysis by the ESCO, say in the case of a building, from which an energy savings solution is proposed. If the customer accepts the offer, the ESCO installs the required equipment and related components, and maintains the installed package to ensure that the projected energy savings are provided during a pre-determined period, one that typically is long enough to pay back the ESCO’s project’s capital investment over the contract period, usually a 5- to 20-year period. If the project’s energy savings are not forthcoming, the ESCO must often pay the customer the difference.

A key to setting up the ESCO MSA pricing structure, as with a fee per use contract, is for the service provider to determine an effective way to measure the energy savings during the contract term. So, for ESCOs, once the energy savings system is installed, they must track the flows of energy associated with the installed system, which often requires a carefully and detailed measurement of, say, various heat inflow and outflow temperatures, or, possibly, the customer’s utility charges. A lighting contractor ESCO, for example, might take key measurements from lighting fixtures before and after predetermined operational hours to measure energy savings. These measurements may also be performed by an independent third-party.

D.​What is the Typical Fee Per Use Provision?

Many manufacturers of medical equipment offering equipment used by healthcare facilities also provide forms of service contracts in which the equipment, operational software and supplies are supplied for an agreed-upon contract term. In many of these situations the contracts are priced based on the number of times the equipment is used for a procedure or the amounts of supplies, such as reagents, that are used in connection with the use of the equipment. Typically, as stated earlier, the customer must agree to pay the service provider for a minimum number of uses or supplies--which is often set in an amount sufficient to pay for the cost of the equipment provided.

In structuring the fee per charge, the service provider typically determines what the minimum fee per charge must be to fully amortize the cost of equipment provided over the contract term-and often sets an annual aggregate per use charge which is less than the customer’s historical annual use. Approached in this way, it is can be very difficult for the customer or its accountants to determine what in fact it is paying for the equipment on a standalone basis and, thus, this approach often achieves off-balance sheet treatment for the payment obligation, something not readily achievable if the equipment were subject to a lease running for the same period of time. These structures are, as you might expect in today’s lease accounting environment, very attractive to potential equipment users.

1.​Sample Per Use Payment Provision:

A typical fee per use payment provision might look something like the sample below. It is not unusual to have the fee per terms and conditions set forth in a separate fee per use payment agreement discussed earlier, which references the “services” to be provided with respect to which the fee per payment agreement provision applies. In the example below the services are to be provided under an “End User Agreement” which supplies what is referred to below as the “System”, which includes equipment and related software, with the supplies necessary to operate the equipment coming within the term “Services”. In the case of the example fee per use agreement provision, the use of a completely separate services agreement referenced is an effort to separate the non-performance of the services by the service provider from the payment obligation (similar to the approach used in connection with a net finance lease) and, thus, shield any equipment financing company financing the equipment from a successful challenge to the fee per use payment obligation for a services performance failure. It is not unusual, as stated earlier, for the fee per use agreement to provide for a minimum per use payment and then to add additional changes for usage over the minimum use required, as described below. Ultimately, the fee per use agreement will look more like a straight financial contract for money to be repaid.

“Customer desires to acquire certain products and services (“Services”) listed on the cover page (“Cover Page”) of this fee per use agreement from Able Corporation (“AC”), as set forth in that certain End User Agreement between AC and Customer dated as of _____________, 20__ (the “End User Agreement”), under the terms and conditions set forth below. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the End User Agreement with AC, Customer shall pay AC fees monthly, in arrears, in accordance with the amounts set forth on the Cover Page, for the use of the Equipment and related software (collectively, “System”) and the provision of the supplies listed on the Cover Page. The Minimum Monthly Payments (each, a “Minimum Monthly Payment”) stated on the Cover Page will be based upon the Minimum Monthly Usage set forth on the Cover Page, regardless of whether Customer has actually performed the Minimum Monthly Usage. Customer agrees to pay the fees for each additional Use, as stated on the Cover Page, for each Use in excess of the Minimum Monthly Usage (“Per Additional Use Fees”). The Minimum Monthly Payments and the Per Additional Use Fees are, collectively, the “Per Use Fees” or “PUFs”. The PUFs also include Service from AC for the Term of this Agreement, as set forth on the Cover Page.

E.​What are the Financing Challenges for the Equipment Financing Company?

As alluded to above, any MSA payment obligation a prospective third-party equipment financing company would look to, through assignment, to guarantee the repayment of its equipment costs over the contract term may be subject to challenge if the MSA packaged services are not in fact provided, or even worse if there is a claim by the customer that they are faulty or have not been not provided, causing the customer to hold back any MSA payment to the equipment financing company. Accordingly, in many cases as stated above, the third-party financing company will look to the service provider (and thus its creditworthiness) to support its equipment repayment obligation through some form of payment non-performance indemnity.

The structuring of the indemnity is often challenging--with the service provider wanting to “book” (record for financial reporting purposes) the full revenues from discounting the payment stream at the time the payment stream is discounted (sold to the equipment financing company), something for which it will need agreement from its accountants, who may claim the amount paid is subject to a contingency and, accordingly, the cash paid by the equipment financing company may not be capable of being fully booked at the time of payment, requiring a partial booking upfront, with the remainder being booked over the term of the contract. Setting up the indemnity carefully, however, may allow the service provider to book its full revenues at the time of assignment if, for example, the indemnity is triggered other than for a customer payment stoppage as a result of a customer credit problem, such as bankruptcy, and not for a failure by the service provider to properly perform its service obligations. These indemnities are often highly negotiated and finely tuned, but properly written can give the third-party financing company assurances that the service provider’s credit stands behind the equipment repayment obligations except for a customer credit problem–-basically a risk the equipment financing company typically takes in any lease transaction. .

The real challenge, however, is if there is a disagreement between the customer and the service provider as to whether the service provider’s performance has been faulty. This is another area of high negotiation--with provisions detailing when the service provider’s performance is deemed to have conclusively failed. Ideally, the service provider wants to avoid having the indemnity triggered if there is merely a “claim” by the customer that the service provider’s performance is faulty. On the other hand, the equipment financing company wants to avoid being in the middle of an argument where the service provider is claiming their performance has been fully complied with and therefore the indemnity should not be triggered and the customer claiming the service provider has breached its contract performance obligations. A compromise often made is that the parties may agree that certain court action may be required and that, if at the trial level, it is determined that the service providers performance has been faulty, the indemnity would be triggered and, then, the service provider would have the right to take over any litigation going forward to resolve the matter and obtain damages to reimburse it for any indemnity payments. In any event, each situation must be viewed on its own and the credit support for any equipment repayment obligations must be carefully negotiated–-on both the service provider’s side and on the third-party financing company side.

In the case of an ESCO guaranteeing savings, the third-party financing company will often look to the ESCO for a savings guaranty to support the repayment of the equipment financing.

F.​Summary.

In an effort to address the adverse consequences of various accounting implications requiring on balance sheet treatment of long-term liabilities in connection with contracts providing equipment, many companies have put together managed services agreements where equipment and collateral products, such as software and equipment maintenance, are bundled in an offering to an equipment user or fee per use agreements where the pricing for the equipment and services are based on a payment measurement that is other than a straight equipment cost repayment obligation. The financing by a third-party financing company of the equipment under services or fee per use agreements have many challenges and requires a detailed analysis of the obligations and commitments, both of the equipment user and of the service provider--in each case the service provider’s credit may be a factor in the granting of the financing for the equipment being provided under a services or fee per use arrangement.

c3HC

CHAPTER 14

The Bankruptcy Rules for Leasing

A.​Introduction

Inevitably, if you’re involved in an equipment financing transaction, you will, at some time, be involved in a bankruptcy proceeding. Highly likely if you’re a lessor. Less likely, but certainly possible if you’re a lessee. And that is why an understanding of the bankruptcy rules is essential for all parties to an equipment lease transaction.

In this Chapter we will be examining the basic provisions of the Federal bankruptcy law (the law under which most bankruptcies are handled), known as the Bankruptcy Code, as they relate to equipment lease transactions. The Bankruptcy Code is embodied in Title 11 of the United States Code. An examination of similar state laws will not be addressed because they are rarely encountered in an equipment lease situation.

The impact on a lessor, and any equipment lender to the lessor, if the lessee files for protection under, or is involuntarily subjected to, the bankruptcy laws can be significant. For the equipment lessor an understanding of the Bankruptcy Code rules is essential in order to properly assess whether to enter into an equipment lease, to properly draft the financing contract to facilitate a better potential recovery, and to know what it can and cannot do when a bankruptcy occurs. Mistakes can be very costly. The lessor’s equipment lender (say, in a leveraged lease transaction) must also understand these rules in order to properly assess whether to enter into an equipment lease loan, to properly draft the loan contract to facilitate the best possible collateral rights protections, and to know what it can and cannot do as a secured lender when a bankruptcy occurs. A lessee, on the other hand, must understand its rights in the event it, or its lessor, becomes subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. For a lessee, the effect of a lessor bankruptcy, although potentially a problem, is less of a concern, unless, of course, the lessor has ongoing responsibilities, such as supplying maintenance or other services, over and above simply not interfering with the continued use of the equipment. In the case of a leveraged lease transaction, the bankruptcy of the lessor’s equipment lender is generally of little or no practical concern. Typically, in all cases, a lessee can expect that its right to the continued use of the equipment will not be interfered with.

Basically, there are two types of proceedings in bankruptcy, reorganization proceedings and liquidation proceedings. A reorganization proceeding is one in which a company in financial difficulty, referred to now in bankruptcy as the debtor, has elected to avail itself of bankruptcy protection to get some breathing room from its creditors to see if it can restructure its business and get financially back on track. A liquidation proceeding is one in which it has been determined that the debtor can no longer continue in business. In a liquidation preceding, the debtor’s assets are liquidated (generally sold off) for the benefit of the debtor’s creditors. A bankruptcy liquidation or reorganization proceeding can be voluntary, one in which the debtor seeks bankruptcy law protection or assistance, or one in which the debtor is involuntarily forced into bankruptcy by its creditors.

There are, for a lessor, two key Bankruptcy Code provisional concepts that should be highlighted here because they govern two important, practical aspects of a lessee-in-bankruptcy lease transaction. The first is the automatic stay provision found in Bankruptcy Code Section 362, which puts a hold on important lessor actions once the bankruptcy occurs. The second are the provisions, found in Bankruptcy Code Section 265, which permit the rejection or assumption of an unexpired lease by or on behalf of a lessee in bankruptcy. Also worthy of mention, for aircraft, railroad rolling stock and vessel lessors, there are two additional sections that can be important, Bankruptcy Code Section 1110 and Section 1168, which allow certain preference equipment repossession rights, discussed in greater detail below.

B.​Bankruptcy Liquidation and Reorganization

There are five bankruptcy chapter proceedings, Bankruptcy Code Chapters 7, 9, 11, 12 and 13, that cover the various types of liquidation or reorganization (sometimes referred to as restructuring) proceedings available. Bankruptcy Chapter 7 proceedings govern individual and entity liquidations. Bankruptcy Chapter 11 proceedings govern individual business entrepreneur (as well certain other individuals) and entity reorganizations. Chapter 7 and Chapter 11 are the ones typically encountered or used when commercial lease transactions are involved. Bankruptcy Chapter 9 governs municipal bankruptcies, Bankruptcy Chapter 12 governs family farmer reorganization proceedings, and Bankruptcy Chapter 13 governs certain limited individual (typically non-business) reorganizations. The later three Chapter proceedings are not typically encountered in the day-to-day business of equipment leasing, and will be left to your reading if such a situation arises.

C.​Chapter 7-Liquidation, An Overview

A Bankruptcy Code Chapter 7 proceeding, in which the business assets are liquidated for the benefit of the business’ creditors, is the most difficult one to encounter for an equipment lessor for obvious reasons--more likely that not the lessor will incur a significant economic loss. In a Chapter 7 proceeding, if granted, an individual debtor actually obtains a complete discharge from all debts. Although the substantive effect is the same for an entity liquidation proceeding, technically, when an entity is involved, such as a corporation, an actual formal discharge from all debts is not granted, but the business entity is expected to dissolve its existence under the applicable non-bankruptcy laws, after its assets are liquidated. In general, as mentioned above, both business entities and individuals can request (a voluntary proceeding initiated by the debtor), or, depending on the circumstances, be forced into a Chapter 7 liquidation (an involuntary proceeding initiated by one or more the debtor’s creditors).

Once the debtor (such as an equipment lessee) files under Chapter 7, seeking the protection of the bankruptcy laws, an interim bankruptcy trustee is appointed through the bankruptcy court having jurisdiction over the proceeding. In some cases, the interim trustee may be replaced by a bankruptcy trustee that has been elected by the debtor’s creditors. If the debtor’s creditors do not elect their trustee, the interim trustee will in effect become the final bankruptcy trustee.

The job of the bankruptcy trustee is to determine the proper disposition (liquidation) of the debtor’s assets. In some cases, the assets will be sold to third parties and the proceeds distributed to the debtor’s creditors in accordance with certain priority rules mentioned below. If the creditor is a secured creditor, such as an equipment lessor or bank with a valid lien on certain assets of the debtor, typically their rights to the secured collateral are retained. Some assets considered inconsequential or burdensome may simply be abandoned by the trustee and returned to the debtor. Certain assets may be exempt, and will be out of the trustee’s reach.

D.​Chapter 11-Reorganization, An Overview

A Bankruptcy Code Chapter 11 proceeding can be commenced voluntarily by the debtor, or involuntarily against the debtor by certain creditors of the debtor. As suggested above, the intent behind a Chapter 11 proceeding is to facilitate the reorganization of the debtor in an effort to put the debtor fully back on its financial feet, and, thus, prevent it from falling into a Chapter 7 liquidation. If a Chapter 11 reorganization is unsuccessful, a Chapter 7 proceeding is assuredly next.

In a Chapter 11 proceeding, it is not unusual for the debtor (such as an equipment lessee), as opposed to a trustee, to retain control over the business assets, in which case the debtor is referred to as the debtor-in-possession, or the DIP. A trustee, however, may be appointed through the bankruptcy court if there are grounds for doing so, typically, referred to as “for cause.”

The DIP, or trustee, if elected, is required to formulate a plan of reorganization, which must be approved by the governing bankruptcy court (subject to input from the creditors) in which the debtor is to pay its debts in accordance with the reorganization plan. The plan, if approved by the bankruptcy court, will typically, in effect, modify the payment responsibilities of the debtor, thus giving the debtor a new start going forward. As you may suspect, in a Chapter 11 proceeding, typically all the assets are not liquidated, but rather many are retained to facilitate the on-going business operation. Under a Chapter 11 proceeding, however, assets are permitted to be liquidated to the extent necessary to ensure that the business, for example, survives. Equipment leases, as you’ll see below, among certain other asset transactions, receive special treatment.

E.​Automatic Stay

An important concept within the Bankruptcy Code is something referred to as an automatic stay, provided for in Bankruptcy Code Section 362 (c). Very simply, once bankruptcy is instituted, all actions against the bankrupt (debtor) are prohibited. This, for example, means that once the automatic stay exists (at the time bankruptcy is instituted) the lessor cannot go in and get the leased equipment without the debtor’s consent or court authority. The automatic stay also puts a stop to any potential legal proceedings that might be used to recover on any pre-bankruptcy petition claims against the debtor. The intent of the automatic stay is to protect the debtor and the bankruptcy estate’s creditors from the item by item dismemberment of the estate’s assets. Any knowing violation of the automatic stay rule will subject the lessor to actual and punitive damages.

F.​Equipment Lease Treatment in Bankruptcy

Equipment leases are treated under the bankruptcy rules in a special manner. Section 365(a) of the Bankruptcy Code allows a bankruptcy trustee or a DIP to assume or reject all executory contracts, which include unexpired equipment lease contracts. Basically, an executory contract, under contract law, is a contract in which the obligations of all parties, in the case of a lease the debtor and the lessor, are so unperformed that it would be considered a material contract breach if any party failed to meets its obligations giving the other party or parties a legal excuse not to perform its obligations.

One additional important point. The general rule under the Bankruptcy Code is that the debtor must fully perform, in a timely manner, all of its equipment lease obligations that come into being starting sixty days following the institution of the bankruptcy proceeding. As you might suspect, the bankruptcy court can reduce these debtor performance obligations if it determines that it is in the best interest of the bankruptcy estate to do so. The lessor must be given notice of this possibility and an opportunity to argue against this possibility before the bankruptcy court can make the change.

G.​Assumption or Rejection

If the equipment lease is assumed, the debtor’s assets are deemed to be available for (technically, the bankruptcy estate becomes bound by) serving the remaining lease obligations assumed. You might wonder whether, if the lessee is in bankruptcy, this is worth anything to a lessor. In fact, it is. To begin with, in order for the trustee or DIP to be able to assume the lease, the bankruptcy estate must do three things:

1.​cure any lease default or provide adequate assurance that the default will be promptly cured;

2.​pay the lessor for any default damages or provide adequate assurance that the default damages will be promptly paid; and

3.​give adequate assurance that the future lease obligations will be met.

The real advantage to a lease assumption is that the lease payment obligations become a bankruptcy estate administration expense, giving the lessor a payment distribution priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors for any damages arising for lease contract defaults following the assumption. To give you a priority preference perspective, in general, bankruptcy claims are treated in specified categories of priority. The secured claims are paid first, and the unsecured claims are paid next, with the equity owners taking the last recovery position. The assumption of a lease by the debtor requires the approval of the bankruptcy court, after notice, and an opportunity to be heard, is given to the unsecured creditors, who may be hurt by the payment priority.

Interestingly, as you might suspect, the typical event of default provision found in most lease contracts, such as lessee insolvency, a material adverse change in the lessee’s financial condition, the commencement of a lessee bankruptcy proceedings or the appointment of a trustee in bankruptcy for a lessee, are not “defaults” which must be cured as part of the lease assumption.

As stated above, the equipment lease can also be rejected, allowing the debtor to abandon any assets that the trustee or the DIP would in its reasonable business judgment consider burdensome to the bankruptcy estate. The decision, however, must be on an all or none basis (that is, if assumed, all the obligations must be assumed), unless the lease contract contains agreements that can be separated.

If the lease is rejected, however, the rejection is deemed to be a breach of the lease contract and the lessor can not only reclaim its equipment, but it can make a claim in bankruptcy for any damages that have been incurred under the lease contract before the filing of the bankruptcy petition. The claim for damages would be a general unsecured claim. Once rejected, the lease cannot be assumed, even if it would be beneficial to the bankruptcy estate to do so.

H.​The Assumption or Rejection Time Periods

In a bankruptcy liquidation proceeding (Bankruptcy Code Chapter 7), the debtor (through the trustee in bankruptcy, if one is appointed) must decide whether to make the lease assumption or rejection within sixty days following the institution of the bankruptcy proceeding. If the decision to assume or reject is not made within the sixty days period, the lease contract is deemed to have been rejected. I should mention here that the sixty day period may be subject to extension by the bankruptcy court if it determines there is a valid reason to do so, often referred to as “for cause.”

In a bankruptcy reorganization (Bankruptcy Code Chapters 9, 11, 12, or 13), the rule is different. The debtor is allowed (through the trustee in bankruptcy if one is appointed) to determine whether it wants to assume or reject an equipment lease at any time, as long as the decision is made before the bankruptcy court puts it stamp of approval (referred to as confirms) the plan of reorganization. This decision time period, again, is subject to shortening upon notice to, and an hearing by, the bankruptcy court. In certain cases, it is possible for the bankruptcy court to approve a reorganization plan that permits the debtor to assume or reject an equipment lease after the reorganization has been approved by the court and is effective.

One more point. If an equipment lease is assumed in the reorganization proceeding, the general feeling is that it can still be rejected in a subsequent liquidation preceding (if the reorganization is not successful), or, possibly, if a trustee was appointed if the debtor in possession was later thrown out by the bankruptcy court.

I.​Special Treatment for Aircraft, Railroad Rolling Stock and Vessels

As mentioned earlier, the Bankruptcy Code provides certain additional protections, under Bankruptcy Code Section 1110 and Section 1168, for lessors of aircraft, railroad rolling stock and vessels. Very simply, if the lessee/debtor wants to continue to use such equipment, it must cure all lease defaults that exists at the time of the filing of the bankruptcy proceeding, within sixty days following its filing; must timely perform all future obligations under the lease contract during the period of continued use; and, if a lease default occurs, must cure the default within thirty days following its occurrence. If these conditions are not met, the lessor can immediately repossess the equipment without regard to the Bankruptcy Code automatic stay provisions, and without regard to any right the lessee would otherwise have under the Bankruptcy Code to use the equipment in the ordinary course of business (say, to assist in its ability to successfully come through a bankruptcy reorganization) or the powers of the bankruptcy court to stop (enjoin) any such repossession. The commitment by the lessee/debtor, if it wants to continue to hold this equipment, to cure past defaults and meet all on-going obligations, however, is nothing more than an exception to the automatic stay, use of equipment and injunctive rules which would otherwise come into play in a bankruptcy proceeding. It is not deemed to be an assumption of the entire lease contract, with the lessee debtor still able to terminate the lease arrangement when the equipment is no longer required. Whether in fact this right to repossess is worth anything to a lessor, of course, depends on the value of the equipment at the time of repossession. If the value is not there, having the lessee/debtor continue to use the equipment may be the best alternative.

J.​What Happens If The Lease Is Not A True Lease?

If an equipment lease turns out to in fact be a secured equipment financing, for example, a security agreement or an installment (conditional) sale agreement, as discussed in Chapter 13 of this book, then the lessor can lose some benefits under bankruptcy. First, the “lease” does not have to be assumed or rejected by the debtor, and, second, and often of most concern, is that the debtor may be able to completely ignore the purported security interest in the equipment if the proper Uniform Commercial Code financing statement (a UCC-1) was not filed, was improperly filed or certain other statutory requirements for “perfecting” the security interest in the equipment were not taken. In a pure bankruptcy liquidation proceeding, this reduces the lessor to an unsecured creditor.

In a bankruptcy reorganization proceeding there are also adverse consequences. Even if the proper Uniform Commercial Code filings were made, meaning that the equipment at hand was in fact successfully encumbered by the lessor’s security interest, there is no requirement under the Bankruptcy Code that that any past defaults be cured by the debtor, nor does the debtor have to provide any comfort to the lessor that it can adequately meet its payment or other obligations under the “lease”, in order for it to continue to use the equipment. The debtor merely has to give the lessor comfort, called “adequate protection”, that lessor’s security interest in the equipment will be secure. Worse yet, for the lessor, is that, if the debtor wants to retain the equipment for use in a bankruptcy reorganization, the actual plan of reorganization may reduce the interest rate or payment terms originally agreed to under the purported lease contract, leaving the lessor with an unrecoverable deficiency. As you can image, the “adequate protection” requirement is open for discussion in the bankruptcy court. It may, for example, take of the form a security deposit, the granting of a lien on additional assets the debtor has, or some form of payment preference over other bankruptcy creditors.

For those lessors that package maintenance or other equipment related services with an equipment lease, if the lease is deemed to be, say, a conditional sale agreement, it is possible for the bankruptcy court to separate the two agreement arrangements, determining that the lessor no longer is the equipment owner, but treating the maintenance portion as an executory contract, allowing the debtor to assume or reject the equipment services. If the debtor decides to assume the service aspect, and the services were offered below the lessor’s cost as part of the lease marketing inducement, the lessor may end up with an on-going below cost service responsibility.

K.​Summary

The classification of an equipment lease as a true equipment lease for bankruptcy purposes has benefits. The debtor must decide whether to assume or reject a lease contract within a prescribed period of time, giving the lessor some benefits over those of a typical secured or unsecured creditor in bankruptcy. If rejected, the lessor gets its equipment back, and can file a bankruptcy claim as an unsecured creditor for the damages resulting from the lease rejection, deemed to be a contract breach. If the lease is assumed, the lessor has some assurance that it will be paid what it is owed under the lease contract, subject to adjustment by the bankruptcy court. If a lease contract is not deemed to represent a true lease for bankruptcy purposes, and, instead, is determined to be, say, a security agreement or a conditional or installment sale arrangement, then, unless the lessor has taken the proper precaution under the Uniform Commercial Code to secure its interest in the equipment, it may lose the equipment collateral to the debtor and become an unsecured creditor.

c3JY

CHAPTER 15

Equipment Lease Terminology - The Definitions -

When entering into a leasing transaction, you may encounter unfamiliar terms that have developed along with the leasing industry. This chapter defines terms according to their industry usage.

•​Accelerated cost recovery system (ACRS). The method prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code that an equipment owner must use in computing depreciation deductions on most equipment placed in service after 1980 and before 1987. Under ACRS, the owner writes off the equipment’s cost over a 3-year, 5-year, 10-year, or 15-year period, depending on the recovery period designated for the equipment type.

•​Acceptance certificate. A document in which a lessee acknowledges that certain specified equipment is acceptable for lease. Generally used in transactions where the parties enter into the lease document well in advance of the equipment’s delivery date, it serves to notify the lessor that the equipment has been delivered, inspected, and accepted for lease as of a specified date. The typical form requires the lessee to list certain pertinent information, including the equipment manufacturer, purchase price, serial number, and location.

•​Acceptance supplement. The same as an acceptance certificate.

•​Advance rental. Any payment in the form of rent made before the start of the lease term. The term is also sometimes used to describe a rental payment arrangement in which the lessee pays all rentals, on a per period basis, at the start of each rental payment period. For example, a quarterly, in advance, rental program requires the lessee to pay one-fourth of the annual rental at the start of each consecutive three-month period during the lease term.

•​Anti-churning. A concept under the federal tax laws that prevents a taxpayer from taking advantage of more favorable equipment depreciation tax benefits through equipment transaction manipulations that violate the spirit of the tax laws.

•​Asset depreciation range (ADR) indemnity. A type of tax indemnification given by the lessee to the lessor relating to leased equipment depreciated under the asset depreciation range system method. The lessee, in effect, guarantees the lessor against loss of, or inability to claim, anticipated ADR tax benefits under certain conditions.

•​Asset depreciation range system (ADR). A method prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code that could be used in computing depreciation deductions for certain assets placed in service after 1970 and before 1981. ADR provides a range of useful lives for specified assets that serve as the period over which the asset is depreciated. The lives listed are generally shorter than the period over which an asset may be depreciated under the “facts and circumstances” method of depreciation.

•​Balloon payment. Commonly found in mortgage financings, a balloon payment is a final payment that is larger than the periodic term payments. Usually it results because the debt has not been fully amortized during the repayment period. For example, a one-year financing arrangement providing for interest-only monthly payments during the year, with the principal plus the last interest payment due on the final payment date, is said to have a “balloon payment” or simply a “balloon” due at the end of the term.

•​Bareboat charter party. A net financial lease relating to vessels. Also sometimes referred to simply as a “bareboat charter.” See Net Lease.

•​Base lease term. The primary period of time that the lessee is entitled to use the leased equipment, without regard to any interim or renewal lease terms. The base lease term of a five-year lease is five years.

•​Base rental. The rental that the lessee must pay during the base, sometimes called primary, lease term.

•​Beneficial interest holder. Refers to a beneficial, as opposed to legal (title), owner. For example, when a trust has been created by the equity participants to act as the lessor, the equity participants are deemed the beneficial interest holders. They hold interests in the trust that has title to the equipment.

•​Bond. An instrument that represents a long-term debt obligation. The debt instruments, sometimes referred to as loan certificates, issued in a leveraged lease transaction, are referred to as bonds or notes.

•​Book reporting. The reporting of income or loss for financial as opposed to tax purposes on the financial records of a corporation or other reporting entity.

•​Book residual value. An estimate of the equipment’s residual value that a lessor uses, or “books,” to calculate his economic return on a lease transaction.

•​Broker. A person or entity who, for compensation, arranges lease transactions for another’s account. A broker is also referred to as a syndicator or underwriter.

•​Call. The right a lessee may have to buy specified leased equipment for a predetermined fixed price, usually expressed as a percentage of original cost. If provided, such an option commonly does not become exercisable until the end of the lease term, and it lapses if the lessee fails to give the lessor timely notice of its intention to exercise it. For example, a lessee may have a right to buy equipment at the end of the lease term for 30% of original cost, notice of intention to exercise the option to be given not less than 90 days before the lease term’s end.

•​Capital lease. Under the guidelines set out in FAS 13 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, a lessee must classify certain long-term leases as capital leases for accounting and reporting purposes. Capital leases are accounted for in a manner that reflects the long-term repayment obligation of such leases.

•​Cash flow. In a lease transaction, the amount of cash a lease generates for a lessor.

•​Casualty value. A predetermined amount of money that a lessee guarantees the lessor will receive in the event of an equipment casualty loss during the lease term. Generally, expressed as a percentage of original cost, the value varies according to the point in time during the lease term that the loss occurs. It is also referred to as a “stipulated loss value.”

•​Certificate of delivery and acceptance. The same as acceptance certificate.

•​Charter party. A document that provides for the lease (charter) of a vessel or vessels. While the format is basically the same as any other lease, there are certain additions and modifications reflecting the requirements dictated by a vessel transaction.

•​Charterer. The lessee of a vessel.

•​Chattel mortgage. A mortgage relating to personal property. Thus, a mortgage on equipment is a chattel mortgage.

•​Collateral. Assets used as security for the repayment of a debt obligation. In a typical leveraged lease, the lender’s collateral is the leased equipment.

•​Commencement date. The date the base, or primary, lease term begins.

•​Commission agreement. An agreement between a lease broker and a prospective equity participant providing for the payment of a fee to the broker for services in arranging a lease transaction.

•​Commitment fee. Compensation paid to a lender in return for an agreement to make a future loan or to a lessor for its commitment to lease equipment to a lessee in the future.

•​Conditional sales agreement. A contract, also referred to as CSA, that provides for the time financing of asset purchases. The seller typically retains title to (but in any event maintains a security interest in) the asset until the buyer fulfills all specified conditions, such as installment payments. At that time, title if retained automatically vests in the buyer (or in the case of an existing security interest, is subject to release)).

•​Cost of money. Commonly, the cost that a lessor incurs to borrow money. This includes the interest rate and any additional costs related to such borrowing, such as fees or compensating balances. In pricing a lease transaction, a lessor factors this cost into the lessee’s lease payment computation.

•​Cost-to-customer. The simple interest rate on a lease transaction, often called simply the “c2c”.

•​DDB/SYD/TAN. A technique of switching methods of depreciation to maximize early depreciation write-offs used on property not covered by ACRS or MACRS. Depreciation deductions are initially computed using the double-declining balance (DDB) method with an appropriately timed change to the sum-of-the-years-digits (SYD) method followed by another appropriately timed change to the straight-line method.

•​Debt participant. A long-term lender in a leveraged lease transaction. Frequently, these transactions have more than one debt participant.

•​Debt service. The aggregate periodic repayment amount, including principal and interest, due on a loan.

•​Default. In a lease transaction, when a party breaches certain material lease obligations.

•​Deficiency guarantee. A guarantee given to a lessor by a third party, such as an equipment vendor or manufacturer, to induce a lessor to enter into a lease that it would not otherwise enter into usually because the prospective lessee may be a poor credit risk, or because the future value of equipment may be highly speculative. For example, a deficiency guarantor may agree to pay the lessor for any shortfall below a designated amount, say 20% of original cost, incurred when the equipment is sold at the end of the lease.

•​Deficit Reduction Act (DRA). The 1984 Deficit Reduction Act, a Federal income tax act.

•​Delivery and acceptance certificate. The same as an acceptance certificate.

•​Depreciation indemnity. A tax indemnification given by a lessee against the lessor’s loss of anticipated depreciation tax benefits on leased equipment.

•​Direct financing lease. A classification for a particular type of lease prescribed under the lease accounting guidelines set out by the FASB in FAS 13, applicable to lessors. Those guidelines tell lessors how to report direct financing leases for accounting purposes.

•​Discounted cash flow analysis. The process of determining the present value of future cash flows.

•​Economic Recovery Tax Act (ERTA). The 1981 Economic Recovery Tax Act, a Federal income tax act.

•​Equipment certificate of acceptance. The same as an acceptance certificate.

•​Equity participant. The equity investor in a leveraged lease. Frequently, a leveraged lease transaction has more than one equity participant, who jointly own and lease the equipment. An equity participant is also sometimes referred to as an “owner participant.”

•​Event of default. An event that provides the basis for the declaration of a default. For example, the nonpayment of rent under a lease agreement is typically prescribed as an event of default that gives the lessor the right to declare the lease in default and to pursue permitted remedies, such as terminating the lease and reclaiming the equipment.

•​Facts and circumstances depreciation. A method of determining the depreciable life of an asset generally usable on assets placed in service before 1981. Under the facts and circumstances method, the useful life determination is based on the owner’s experience with similar property, giving due consideration to current and anticipated future conditions, such as wear and tear; normal progress of the art; economic changes, inventions, and current developments within the industry and the taxpayer’s trade or business; climatic and other relevant local conditions that can affect the taxpayer’s repair, renewal, and replacement program.

•​Fair market purchase value. An asset’s value as determined in the open market in an arm’s length transaction (one in which there is a willing buyer and a willing seller, under no compulsion to act) under normal selling conditions. It is also referred to simply as the asset’s “fair market value.”

•​Fair market rental value. The rental rate that an asset would command in the open market in an arm’s length transaction (one in which there is a willing lessee and a willing lessor, under no compulsion to act) under normal renting conditions. It is also referred to simply as the asset’s “fair rental value.”

•​FASB. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the accounting profession’s guideline setting authority.

•​FAS Statement No. 13, Accounting for Leases. FAS No. 13 sets out the standards for financial lease accounting for lessors and lessees. FAS 13 was initially issued by the FASB, Stamford, Connecticut, in November 1976.

•​Finance lease. (1) The same as a full payout lease. (2) A statutory lease category that would have permitted leases that otherwise would not have qualified as true leases for tax purposes to be so treated. Although enacted by TEFRA in 1982, the finance lease’s effective date was postponed, and it was repealed by the 1986 TRA before ever having gone into effect, with limited exceptions.

•​Financing agreement. An agreement commonly entered into by the principal parties to a leveraged lease before equipment delivery. The agreement identifies each party’s obligation to the transaction and any conditions that must be satisfied before the obligations are fixed. Typically, it will involve the debt and equity participants, their representatives, and the lessee. It is also referred to as a “participation agreement.”

•​Floating rental rate. A form of periodic rental payments that change or “float” upward and downward over a lease’s term with changes in a specified interest rate. Frequently, a designated bank’s prime rate is the measuring interest rate.

•​Full payout lease. A form of lease that will provide the lessor with a cash flow generally sufficient to return his equipment investment; pay the principal, interest, and other financing costs on related debt; cover his related sales and administration expenses; and generate a profit. The cash flow is determined from the rental payments, the ownership tax benefits, and the equipment residual value. The lessee typically has the right to use the leased equipment for most of its actual useful life.

•​Gross income tax. A tax imposed by a state or local taxing authority on gross income generated from sources within its jurisdiction. The tax is deductible by the taxpayer for federal income tax purposes.

•​Grossing up. A concept that any reimbursement for a monetary loss will include sufficient additional monies so that the after-tax amount will equal the loss. The recipient is said to be made whole for his loss because the amount paid must take into account any taxes he will have to pay as a result of the receipt of the payments from the payor.

•​Guaranteed residual value. An arrangement in which, for example, a broker or equipment manufacturer guarantees that a lessor will receive not less than a certain amount for specified equipment when it is disposed of at the end of the lease term. It is also sometimes referred to simply as a “guaranteed residual.”

•​Guideline lease. A leveraged lease that meets with the IRS’s lease guidelines such as set out in Revenue Procedures 2001-28 and 2001-29. While the guidelines specifically address only private ruling requests, generally a Guideline lease should qualify as a true lease for federal income tax purposes.

•​Half-year convention. A concept under the income tax rules for depreciating equipment under which all equipment placed in service during a tax year is treated as having been placed in service at the midpoint of that year, regardless of when during the year it was in fact placed in service.

•​Hell or high water clause. A lease provision that commits a lessee to pay the rent unconditionally. The lessee waives any right that exists or may arise to withhold any rent from the lessor or any assignee of the lessor for any reason whatsoever, including any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, or defense.

•​High-low rental. A rental structure in which the rent payments are reduced from a higher to a lower rate at a prescribed point in the lease term.

•​Implicit lease rate. The annual interest rate that, when applied to the lease rental payments, will discount those payments to an amount equal to the cost of the equipment leased.

•​Indemnity agreement. A contract in which one party commits to insure another party against anticipated and specified losses.

•​Indenture. In a leveraged lease transaction, an agreement entered into by an owner trustee (the lessor’s representative) and an indenture trustee (the lender’s representative) in which the owner trustee grants a lien on the leased equipment, the lease rents, and other lessor contract rights as security for repayment of the outstanding equipment loan. It is also referred to as an indenture trust.

•​Indenture trustee. The representative of the lenders where, in a leveraged lease transaction, the debt is provided through a trust arrangement. As the lender’s representative, the indenture trustee may, for example, have to file and maintain a security interest in the leased equipment, receive rentals from the lessee, pay out the proper amounts to the lenders and the lessor, and take certain action to protect the outstanding loan in the event of a loan default.

•​Installment sale. A sale in which the purchase price is paid in an agreed-upon number of installment payments over an agreed upon-period of time. Typically, title to what is sold does not transfer to the purchaser until, and only when, the last installment has been paid.

•​Institutional investors. Institutions that invest in lease transactions. They can be, for example, insurance companies, pension funds, banks, or trusts.

•​Insured value. The same as casualty value.

•​Interim lease rental. The equipment rental due for the interim lease term. Typically, for each day during the interim lease term, a lessee must pay as interim lease rent an amount equal to the daily equivalent of the primary lease term rent. In a leveraged lease transaction, the lease sometimes instead permits the lessee to pay an amount equal to the daily equivalent of the long-term debt interest.

•​Interim lease term. The lease term period between the lessee’s acceptance of the equipment for lease and the beginning of the primary, or base, lease term.

•​Investment tax credit (ITC). A credit allowed against federal income tax liability that can be claimed by a taxpayer for certain “section 38 property” acquired and placed in service by a taxpayer during a tax year. ITC may also be available for certain property under applicable state income tax laws. Under the federal tax laws, ITC is generally not available for property placed in service after 1985.

•​ITC indemnity. A type of indemnification in which the lessee commits to reimburse the lessor for any financial loss incurred through the loss of, or inability to claim, any or all of the anticipated ITC. If the lessor has “passed through” the ITC to the lessee, the lessor may have to give the indemnity.

•​ITC “pass-through.” An election made by the lessor to treat, for ITC purposes, the lessee as the owner of the leased equipment. After the election, a lessee can claim the ITC on the equipment covered by the election.

•​Layoff. The sale by a lessor of his interest in the lease agreement, including the ownership of the leased equipment and the right to receive the rent payments.

•​Lease agreement. A contract in which an equipment owner, the lessor, transfers the equipment’s use, subject to the specified terms and conditions, to another, the lessee, for a prescribed period of time and rental rate.

•​Lease line. A present commitment by a lessor to lease specified equipment to be delivered in the future. A lease line can cover a variety of types of equipment, at varying rental rates and lease terms. It is also referred to as a lease line of credit.

•​Lease underwriting. The process in which a lease broker arranges a lease transaction for the account of third parties, a prospective lessor and a prospective lessee. This can be on a best efforts basis or on a firm commitment basis. In a best efforts underwriting the broker only offers to attempt diligently to arrange the financing on certain proposed terms. In a firm commitment underwriting the broker in effect guarantees to arrange the financing as proposed.

•​Lessee. The user of equipment that is the subject of a lease agreement.

•​Lessor. The owner of equipment that is the subject of a lease agreement.

•​Level payments. Payments that are the same for each payment period during the payment term. Frequently, rent and debt service payments are paid in level payments over the payment period.

•​Leveraged lease. A lease in which a portion, generally 60% to 80% of the equipment acquisition cost is borrowed from a bank or other lending institution, with the lessor paying the balance. The debt is commonly on a non-recourse basis, and the rental payments are usually sufficient to cover the loan debt service.

•​Limited use property. Leased property that will be economically usable only by the lessee, or a member of the lessee group, at the lease term’s end because, for example, of its immobility or unique aspects. The IRS will not rule that a lease is a true lease where the leased equipment is limited use property.

•​Loan certificate. A certificate that evidences a debt obligation.

•​Loan participant. A debt participant.

•​Low-high rental. A rental structure in which the rent payments are increased from a lower to a higher rate at a prescribed point in the lease term.

•​Management agreement. A contract in which one party agrees to manage a lease transaction during its term, including, for example, rental payment processing and equipment disposal.

•​Management fee. A fee that a lease transaction manager receives for services performed under a management agreement.

•​Master lease agreement. A lease agreement designed to permit future equipment not contemplated when the lease is executed to be added to the lease later. The document is set up in two parts. The main body contains the general, or boiler plate provisions, such as the maintenance and indemnification provisions. An annex, or schedule, contains the type of items that usually vary with a transaction, such as rental rates and options.

•​Mid-quarter convention. A concept under the income tax rules for depreciating equipment in which all equipment placed in service during a quarter of a tax year is treated as placed in service at the midpoint of such quarter, regardless of when it was in fact placed in service during the quarter.

•​Modified accelerated cost recovery system (MACRS). A method prescribed for depreciating assets that was introduced by the 1986 TRA. It applies to most equipment placed in service after 1986.

•​Mortgage. An arrangement whereby a lender (mortgagee) acquires a lien on property owned by a taxpayer (mortgagor) as security for the loan repayment. Once the debt obligation has been fully satisfied, the mortgage lien is terminated.

•​Negative spread. The amount by which a value is below a certain prescribed amount. Generally, in a leveraged lease, a negative spread is the amount by which the transaction’s simple interest rate is below the leveraged debt interest rate.

•​Net lease. A lease arrangement in which the lessee is responsible for paying all costs, such as maintenance, certain taxes, and insurance, related to using the leased equipment, in addition to the rental payments. Typically, finance leases are net leases.

•​Non-payout lease. A lease arrangement that does not, over the primary term of the lease, generate enough cash flow to return substantially all the lessor’s investment, debt financing costs, and sales and administration expenses.

•​Non-recourse debt financing. A loan as to which the lender agrees to look solely to the lessee, the lease rents, and the leased equipment for the loan’s repayment. As security for the loan repayment, the lender receives an assignment of the lessor’s rights under the lease agreement and a grant of a first lien on the equipment. Although the lessor has no obligation to repay the debt in the event of a lessee default, his equity investment in the equipment is usually subordinated to the lender’s rights.

•​Non-utilization fee. A fee that a lessor may impose in return for its present commitment to buy and lease specified equipment in the future. The fee is generally expressed as a percentage of the aggregate unused portion of the initial dollar commitment, for example, 1% of the unused balance of a $1 million lease line of credit. Thus, if all the commitment is used, no fee is payable.

•​Operating lease. A form of lease arrangement in which the lessor generally commits to provide certain additional equipment related services, other than the straight financing, such as maintenance, repairs, or technical advice. Generally, operating leases are non-payout in nature. The term also refers to a lease classification under FAS 13.

•​Option. A contractual right that can be exercised under the granting terms. For example, a fair market value purchase option in a lease is the right to buy the equipment covered by it for its fair market value.

•​Packager. A person or entity who arranges a lease transaction for third parties. Also referred to as an underwriter, syndicator, or sometimes, a broker.

•​Participation agreement. The same as a financing agreement.

•​Payout lease. The same as a full payout lease.

•​Personal property. The same as Section 38 property. Equipment is considered personal property, but real estate is not so considered.

•​Portfolio lease. The term commonly refers to a lease that is entered into by a “professional” lessor for its own account and investment.

•​Present value. The term refers to the present worth of a future stream of payments calculated by discounting the future payments at a desired interest rate.

•​Primary lease term. The same as base lease term.

•​Private letter ruling. A written opinion that the IRS issues in response to a taxpayer’s request. The letter sets out the IRS’s position on the tax treatment of a proposed transaction. In leveraged lease transactions, for the IRS to issue a favorable private letter ruling, the request must comply with the IRS Guidelines.

•​Progress payments. Payments that may be required by an equipment manufacturer or builder during the construction period toward the purchase price. Frequently required for costly equipment with a long construction period, the payments are designed to lessen the manufacturer’s or builder’s need to tie up his own funds during construction.

•​Purchase option. The right to buy agreed-on equipment at the times and the amounts specified in the option. Frequently, these options if specified in a lease are only exercisable at the end of the primary lease term, although they sometimes can be exercised during the primary lease term or at the end of any renewal term.

•​Put. A right that a lessor may have to sell specified leased equipment to the lessee at a fixed price at the end of the initial lease term. It is usually imposed to protect the lessor’s residual value assumption.

•​Recourse debt financing. A loan under which the lender may look to the general credit of the lessor, in addition to the lessee and the equipment, for repayment of any outstanding loan obligation. The lender is said to have a “recourse” against the lessor.

•​Recovery property. Property that can be depreciated under ACRS.

•​Renewal option. An option frequently given to a lessee to renew the lease term for a specified rental and time period.

•​Residual sharing. A compensation technique sometimes used by syndicators for arranging a lease transaction. Under this, the equity participants must pay a predetermined percentage of what the equipment is sold for at the end of the lease. For example, a syndicator may get 50% of any amount realized exceeding 20% of the equipment’s original cost on sale.

•​Residual value. The value of leased equipment at the end of the lease term.

•​Right of first refusal. The right of the lessee to buy the leased equipment, or renew the lease, at the end of the lease term, for any amount equal to that offered by an unaffiliated third party.

•​Safe harbor lease. A statutory lease category enacted as part of ERTA that permitted a lease to qualify as a true lease for federal income tax purposes although it would not otherwise ordinarily qualify. It was repealed by the 1984 DRA, with limited exceptions. Under a safe harbor lease, an equipment owner could essentially sell the ownership tax benefits without giving up other ownership rights.

•​Sale-leaseback. An arrangement in which an equipment buyer buys equipment for the purpose of leasing it back to the seller.

•​Sales tax. A tax imposed on selling equipment, similar to any other sales tax on property sold.

•​Sales-type lease. A classification for a particular type of lease prescribed under the lease accounting guidelines that the FASB set out in FAS 13, applicable to lessors.

•​Salvage value. The amount, estimated for federal income tax purposes, that an asset is expected to be worth at the end of its useful life.

•​Section 38 property. Tangible personal property and certain other tangible property, as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 38.

•​Security agreement. An agreement that evidences an assignment by the lessor to the lender, as security for the equipment loan, of the lessor’s rights under the lease agreement and a granting of a security interest in the leased equipment.

•​Sinking fund. A fund frequently established in leveraged lease transactions by the lessor to accumulate funds to pay for future taxes.

•​Sinking fund rate. The interest rate that a sinking fund is deemed to earn on accumulated funds.

•​Special purpose equipment. The same as limited use property.

•​Spread. The difference between two values. In lease transactions, the term is generally used to describe the difference between the lease interest rate and the interest rate on the debt.

•​Stipulated loss value. The same as casualty value.

•​Sublease. The re-lease by a lessee of equipment that is on lease to the lessee.

•​Take or pay contract. An agreement in which one party commits to buy an agreed-on quantity of goods or material from another at a pre-determined price. If the goods or material are not bought, the party making the purchase commitment must pay the party an amount of money equal to the cost of goods or materials it had committed to buy. For example, a public utility can agree to buy 100 tons of coal annually from a mining company, and if it does not buy this amount in any year it will pay an amount of money equal to its sale price.

•​Tax benefit transfer lease (TBT). The same as a safe harbor lease.

•​Tax lease. The same as a true lease.

•​Tax Reform Act (TRA). The 1986 Tax Reform Act, a Federal income tax act.

•​Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act (TEFRA). The 1982 Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act, a Federal income tax act..

•​Termination option. An option entitling a lessee to terminate the lease during the lease term for a predetermined value, termination value, if the equipment becomes obsolete or surplus to the lessee’s needs. The lessor usually requires the lessee to sell the equipment to an unaffiliated third party, and the lessee must pay the lessor any amount by which the sale proceeds are less than the termination value. Typically, any excess sales proceeds go to the lessor.

•​Termination value. The amount that the lessee must pay the lessor if he exercises a lease termination option. Typically, the termination value is set as of each rental payment period and is generally expressed as a percentage of equipment cost. For example, the lessee may be permitted to terminate the lease at the end of the third year of a seven-year lease for an amount equal to 60% of cost.

•​Time sale. An installment sale.

•​Total earnings. The amount by which the aggregate rentals due the lessor over the entire lease term exceed the total equipment costs, including equity investment and debt financing costs. This concept does not consider the time value of money.

•​TRAC lease. A lease of motor vehicles or trailers that contains what is referred to as a terminal rental adjustment clause (TRAC). The clause permits or requires the rent amount to be adjusted based on the proceeds the lessor receives from the sale of the leased equipment. TRAC leases qualify as true leases.

•​Transition rules. Statutory rules enacted when there is a change in the tax laws. The transition rules allow certain transactions to be exempted from the law change. For example, transition rules permitted ITC to be claimed on certain equipment placed in service after 1985.

•​True lease. An arrangement that qualifies for lease treatment for federal income tax purposes. Under a true lease, the lessee may deduct rental payments and the lessor may claim the tax benefits accruing to an equipment owner.

•​Trust. An arrangement in which property is held by one party for the benefit of another. It is frequently used in leveraged lease transactions.

•​Trust certificate. A trust document issued on behalf of a trust to evidence the beneficial ownership in the trust estate.

•​Trustee. The person or entity appointed, or designated, to carry out a trust’s terms. In leveraged lease transactions, the trustee is generally a bank or trust company.

•​Trustee fees. Fees payable to a trustee as compensation for services performed.

•​Trustor. An individual or entity who causes the creation of a trust and for whose benefit it is established.

•​Unleveraged lease. A lease in which the lessor puts up 100% of the equipment’s acquisition cost from its own funds.

•​Use tax. A tax imposed upon the use, storage, or consumption of tangible personal property within a taxing jurisdiction. For example, in most states a lessor purchasing equipment has the option of paying an up-front sales tax equal to a specified percentage of the equipment’s purchase price or a use tax equal to a specified percentage of lease rents under the equipment’s lease.

•​Useful life. Commonly, the economic usable life of an asset.

•​Vendor. A seller of property. Commonly, the manufacturer or distributor of equipment.

•​Vendor Program. A program in which an equipment lessor provides a lease financing service to customers of an equipment manufacturer..