PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A1

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A10

Introduction - 6 Steps To Financial Freedom:  The Secrets that Marketers and Wall Street don’t want you to know. 

This eBook has one aim.  To repay your investment in buying this book at least 1000x by telling you some apparent truths, little-known facts and even less commonly executed strategies.  That sounds like a big claim, actually, it is quite easy.  Sound financial planning is much less complicated than many people make it seem.

Originally from the UK, I came to the Asia-Pacific 7 years ago, living in China, Japan, Indonesia, and Cambodia.  I had previously studied finance, before going on to read politics and international relations.  I have worked in the investment industry investing money on behalf of clients and have read countless academic books and literature, and also headhunted people for the financial sector.

Ironically, I dropped out of business school after one year, despite getting a scholarship to go there.  One reason is that a lot of the academic literature on finance is incredibly boring, and people can’t relate to it.  I certainly couldn’t as an 18-year-old kid, despite being an avid watcher of the financial news, including the financial news on channels such as CNBC and Bloomberg. 

I become interested in finance again for two reasons.  Firstly, I saw how negative financial planning had affected people close to me.  Some close family members can’t retire, despite being fed up with work, due to poor financial planning. 

Second, as an avid traveler and lover of freedom, I always wanted to be free from some of the constraints of modern life.   I haven’t always been good at managing money and implementing my plans.  If I can do it, I am sure many of you reading today can, too.

I have subsequently read the literature inside and out, and helped countless clients, all around the world.  I became baffled at why people don’t act in their own best interest and have culturally influenced opinions about finance.  That led me to read further about human phycology.

I remember many years ago I was speaking to a friend.  An American in China called Richard.  He told me, `Adam, I always say to people, you can learn more about people when they are drunk and when it comes to money than in any other situation`.   After working in the sector for years, I can tell you that is correct.

Unfortunately, though, that means that the vast majority of people (95%+) don’t do what’s in their best interest when it comes to their money, and protecting their wealth. One reason for that is the sheer amount of misleading information out there, including on the aforementioned financial networks, with their sensationalist headlines.    Second, the subject is boring for most people, so getting educated on the subject doesn’t interest most people. 

I have written this book to be a hybrid between looking at some of the academic literature, and also some of the `sexier` topics such as some of the behavioral, culture and physiological reasons people act as they do, alongside some stories from my time overseas. 

Above all else, I want to be succinct, and try to make what is a boring subject for some, exciting and accessible.  I have included some stories of expats and locals I have met, for entertainment but also education.  A story can paint a thousand words and statistics.  Some of the names of individuals have been changed, to protect identities. 

For complete beginners to investing, I would recommend turning to the end of the book and looking at the glossary section and I have included my contact details in Section 10.

While  writing this eBook, I was reading other books and articles, as I continuously do, as reading is a fantastic investment.  I read the book `Self-Made Success` by Shaan Patel, who started a business after winning investment from Mark Cuban on the TV show Shark Tank.  He shared 5 top business ideas with readers that he believes could make $1M.  The cost of the book is less than $10.

Why would he share these ideas?  Many untrusting people don’t share what they know with others, as they think it will get copied.  The sad thing is, most people, won’t copy it, and this is either because they are too lazy, or don’t execute well.  Warren Buffett spends 80% of his days reading.  Mark Cuban spends around 3 hours a day reading.  Even if you don’t have that much time, getting informed never harms anybody.  Few people acts on the information.

Investing isn’t the same as business.  If you copy my ideas, it won’t affect my returns.  You aren’t a competitor.  But the same principles apply.  Many people won’t copy techniques, even if they are shown to work. I hope that you are different and achieve your financial ambitions.

This book will be split up into numerous section.  Part 1 will look at why people underperform financially.  The book will move onto speaking about model portfolios, the best online platforms and tips for finding a good financial advisor in sections 2-4. 

Section 5 will look at why culture and friends can affect investment returns.  Section 6,7 and 8 will focus on taxes and pensions, insurance and retirement respectively.  Finally, I will speak about some case studies near the end.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A35

Part 1 - Why do people underperform financially?

Part one of this book will consider why people underperform financially.  The section will look at the historic returns of different investments, fees, behavioral reasons for underperformance and other factors that contribute to underperformance.   

We will compare the investment returns of the stock markets across regions and look at property, gold and bonds. Some fundamental questions will be answered.  Is it cheaper to buy or rent?  Should we buy property or invest in the stock markets?  Is it wise to invest in property on leverage? 

Should we invest in our home markets and emerging markets?  Should an investor only invest in their home market, or have a diversified portfolio? We also look at fees and `star investment managers`.  Do you know, sometimes you don’t get what you paid for? 

Moving forward, we consider whether people are better off managing their investments.  Does `do it yourself` (DIY) investing in fund platforms work?  Finally, we compare and contrast different investment strategies.  If you have a lump sum, does it make sense to invest it in one go, or invest every month using the `dollar cost averaging` strategy?

This section will contain some information that 95% of people will think is obvious, and some other pieces of advice and information that would surprise most people. Forgetting the basics that were previously learned is one of the biggest mistakes people make.  I am still in contact with numerous friends from business school, and it amazes me how many basic concepts get forgotten across the board.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A48

1.1 Not making the right investment choices

I will speak later about why people don’t make the right investment choice.  A lot of it comes down to culture, human nature ,and bad advice.  However, what investments should people be in?

We know by now that smoking is bad for our bodies and we shouldn’t drink too much alcohol, but a lot of people kid themselves about these matters.  Many people talk themselves into believing certain habits, which they enjoy, are healthy.  A lot of this comes down to confirmation bias. 

I remember recently watching the fantastic BBC program Trust Me I’m a Doctor.  The program looks at headlines in the media and speaks to doctors and scientists with different opinions.  Sometimes, the doctors and scientists have contrary opinions they share with viewers.

I remember one debate between two doctors.  One doctor claimed moderate alcohol consumption has more health benefits than drawbacks.  The second doctor, stating that even moderate alcohol is bad for our health, argued that many doctors suffer from confirmation bias.

That is to say, doctors are people like you and I, and some of them drink.  In fact, most drink at least moderately, and hard drinking is ironically common in the medical industry.  In turn, this leads to a confirmation bias, where many doctors would like to believe that drinking in moderation is healthy. 

Being factually right isn’t automatically a ticket to persuading others. Probably the best book on human nature I have read is Dale Carnegie’s classic How to Win Friends and Influence people.  He, and others since him looking at human nature, show how we are more emotional than rational, but that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t look at the evidence concerning investing in this ebook.  Investors need to be aware of the evidence out there.  If they decide to act on that evidence or base their decisions on emotions, is ultimately up to them.

Investing may not be in the same bracket as medical science, but there is a whole set of academic data out there. The sample size isn’t small either, and goes back more than 100 years.  Investment gains over time, inflation and dividends can all be tracked quite precisely.  It isn’t very subjective, as hard returns are usually easy to calculate. 

So which investments perform best over time?  The fact is that stock markets, especially the US Stock Market, such as the S&P and Dow Jones, have historically delivered 10%-10.5% before inflation, and 6.5% after inflation, once dividends are reinvested.

Other stock markets have also performed well, including the FTSE 100 in the UK, DAX in Germany and Cac in France and the markets in Canada and elsewhere.  The Japanese Stock Market the Nikkei 225, is the only major market that is down compared to its peak level.

Below is a graph of the US stock market.

Two things are immediately evident.  One is just how well the market has performed. 10% per annum doesn’t sound like a lot of money, but compounded year after year; it is huge.  The market was trading at 1000 barely a generation ago, and it touched more than 26,500 in 2018.  It was at 66 in 1900! The index has increased so much that huge falls in 1929, just before the Great Depression, can barely be seen, in historical perspective. 

The Dow fell from 260 to 230 in one day in 1929. A huge fall which you can barely see on the above graph.  The falls of 2008 also look insignificant if one looks at the long-term trend.  In fact, all the figures before the 1990s can barely be seen on the chart, such as been the pace of compounding.  The point is, if markets fall tomorrow by 40%, in 50 years, that will also probably be barely seen on a future graph! 

During the 2016 Presidential Election, the Republican candidate Donald Trump boasted about his business skills.  Many statisticians worked out that if he had simply invested his inheritance from his family in the US Stock Market, he would be richer today.That shows how difficult it is to beat passive investments longer-term, even with businesses, and why people shouldn’t rely on selling a business to fund retirement.

The graph also shows, however, the huge falls that happened after the 1929 stock market crash, and indeed after the Financial Crisis of 2008.  The falls of 1929 are a little bit deceptive for the reason that inflation fell to -9% per year during this period.  In inflation-adjusted terms, the market recovered in 1936-1937.  Only in nominal terms did the markets take longer to recover.  This is a little-known fact, even though factoring in inflation should be obvious. 

Let’s compare the performance of US Stock markets to other investments.  The graph below shows how the markets have easily outperformed gold over time.

As the graph above shows, the US Stock Markets has vastly outperformed gold. In 1978, the Dow: Gold ration was 4:1, with the Dow Jones at $800+ and gold at around $238.  In 2018, the Dow Jones peaked at $26,500, with gold at $1,300, so the ratio is now at 20:1. 

If we extended the graph to 1900-2018, the difference would be even more significant.  From 1802 to 2005, a dollar invested in the U.S. stock market would have grown to $10.3 million, including reinvested dividends. From 1802 to 2005, a dollar invested in Gold rose to $27, and it doesn’t pay any dividends. 

I am sure many readers are surprised by such a huge differential.  Gold is the go-to investment in many parts of India, Vietnam and beyond.  Gold has had its moments in the sun.  The price hit just over $200 in 1999-2000, before leaping to over $1900 in 2011.  That was an increase of almost 1000% in ten years before the price fell to settle at $1300 in 2018.  Every investment, including gold, has good periods, but that doesn’t mean it is a sensible long-term investment. 

There is a rational reason why stock indexes outperform other assets.  Many people are probably wondering why that is.  The S&P, Dow Jones, and Nasdaq as an example, are just the biggest stocks in America.  The biggest firms though, change over time.  There is the survival of the fittest at play here.  Except GE, no original company on the Dow Jones is still on it today.  The same thing applies to the UK FTSE100. It is just the 100 biggest firms in the UK, and the FTSE 250 is the biggest 250 firms in the UK. 

As we become more innovative, it gets harder and harder to get on the index and be one of the biggest firms in your country.  It was considered innovative 200 years ago to have invented the three-wheeled car after horseback went out of fashion.  These days, you might need to invent a car which is the most fuel efficient in history or can fly, to break into the top 100 companies in the US as a new company!

So the market is self-cleaning.  Most businesspeople are confident about their own business growing, but the same dynamic doesn’t exist for property or gold.  The supply of gold is quite stable and demand goes up and down.  So it fluctuates, not losing or gaining a lot of value over long periods of time.  Ever the biggest gold bugs say gold is a good store of wealth, meaning it holds its value.  It does hold its value, but it doesn’t grow by much.

Housing has outperformed gold, especially since the 1980s, but the dynamic isn’t completely different.  Housing stock is relatively stable, unless a government decides to go on a huge house building program.  Demand is stable in smaller towns, and going up in big cities.  Long-term, the market can’t exist without first time buyers. As many first time buyers can’t buy now, there is only so far the market can go.

So the conditions for growth exist in equities, which simply don’t for these assets.  If stocks are ever down over a 50 year period for the first time in history, moreover, then we are all in deep trouble.  No asset would be safe and, democracy itself and the institutions we have gotten used to would be in trouble. 

This is because if stocks underperform for a short period, then certain other assets such as cash, gold or property can outperform without risking the whole system collapsing.    Stocks have underperformed before.  But the fact that the Institutions of the United States almost collapsed during the Great Recession, even though asset prices increased in real terms within a decade due to the deflation, should tell you what would happen if something much worse happened. 

Your property wouldn’t be safe from theft or confiscation if the economy was so bad in 2068 that the largest companies aren’t more efficient then than in 2018!  Your cash may not be worth much due to government efforts to stimulate this 50-year recession, and how much would government bonds be worth?

Barring a nuclear war or an absolute disaster, stocks will outperform other assets long-term.  If they don’t, we are all in trouble, and won’t gain from other assets if things ever got that bad. 

Key Points from section 1:1: 

1). The Equity markets, especially the US Stock, outperform other assets such as Gold.

2). Few people look at the facts.  Little known facts like the US Stock Market didn’t take 25 years to recover in inflation-adjusted terms after the Great Depression, should be well known.

3). We all have confirmation bias, as individuals and in popular culture.

4). There are rational reasons why equity indexes will outperform long-term

1.2 Property

Housing is a more complicated investment to track compared to gold and stock markets, as it can be bought on debt and the costs of owning it are higher, due to repairs and so on.  The evidence on housing is that non-leveraged housing (for example just buying one family house) will probably not beat the the market's long-term.

The only way you can beat the markets with housing is by going down the leveraged buy-to-let route, but that is highly risky.  If interest rates rise or tenants don’t pay, a buy-to-let landlord may become bankrupt. 

This evidence would surprise a lot of people.  Ask the typical person in the UK, US or Canada which investment has performed best, and most people would say property.  The evidence suggests otherwise. 

Let’s look at UK house prices.  According to the Land Registry in the UK (http://landregistry.data.gov.uk/), the average property was 55,000 Sterling in 1995 and is now at 225,000 Sterling in 2018, representing a 309% increase.  Even if we don’t factor in the costs of up-keeping the house, which can be huge, the returns are poor compared to markets.  In early 1995, the Dow Jones was sitting at $3,900.  It increased to $26,616 in 2018, representing a rise of more than 6.5X. 

Once you factor in the lower costs of a stock portfolio and the costs of up-keeping a house, which can be substantial if it is a new kitchen or something else which is a big cost, the difference in returns are even bigger.

It isn’t just US markets either. The German Dax was sitting at 2,100 in 1995, and hit over 13,000 in 2018.  The UK FTSE 100 hasn’t performed as well as US or German markets or the FTSE250.  It was sitting at 2,900 in 1995, and was at 7,800 in 2018.

How about `hot` property markets such as London or some markets in Canada?  What we can see is the same pattern.  There are some years they outperform markets, and they have certainly performed better compared to housing in smaller cities, but they haven’t outperformed markets overall, once costs are accounted for. 

As the figures below show, even the super-hot London market has slightly underperformed the US market if you don’t adjust for costs.  Once costs such as Stamp Duty (the UK tax for buying a house) and paying for repairs is taken into account, the US Index has considerably outperformed London Housing. 

The figures below also take account of the currency markets.  In 1995, the Pound was trading at 1.50-1.60 to the USD.  In 2018, that has fallen to 1.30-1.40 on average.  That 10%-15% depreciation means in common currency terms, the Dow Jones has outperformed London Housing, even before we look at costs.

Type of Asset1995January 2018Percentage Change not adjusting for costs of real estate
London House Price107,590739,297+587% Sterling profit
US Dow Jones Index$3,900$26,616+582% USD Profit.  Over 600% Sterling profit.

That isn’t to say that housing can’t beat the markets over a 5, 10 or even 15 year period. The US is a prime example of this. In America, real estate prices increased by 56% between 1999 and 2004, whereas the S&P produced -6%. Over a 25 year period though, from the start of 1980 until 2004, home prices increased by 247% excluding the costs above, whereas the S&P increased by more than 1000%.  Even in the ten largest US cities, housing underperformed.  Since 2004, the housing crisis of 2007-2008 and subsequent strong equity market performance, the gap has widened.

Canada has been one of the hottest property markets in the world.  If you ask the average Canadian or overseas investor, they would assume it has outperformed stock markets.  If we look at the prices of Canadian real estate from 1994 until 2016, we get the following results:

Asset classPrice in 1994Price in 2016Percentage gain
Average selling price for detached house in Vancouver$368,800$1,470,000 299%

S&P/TSX Composite Index

$368,800

$2,006, 272
444%
US S&P 500$368,800$2,716,520636%

As per the section on confirmation bias, it is human nature to be a bit egotistical and assume we know more than the average investor, and therefore can spot opportunities in the market.  I am sure there are people reading this who have made 1000%+ percent on a property. 

It is true that you can find properties that outperform the housing market and stock markets, in the same way, you can find individual stocks, such as Amazon or Google, that have outperformed the general market.  Certainly, many investors in bitcoin have felt smug recently as well!

This is a risky approach, however.  There are so many unknown unknowns and known unknowns that it is close to impossible over a 40-50 year career to have a good chance to beat the market, using this approach. We will return to this issue later on, about why you shouldn’t speculate or stock pick. 

The fact you can buy thousands of companies cheaply around the world for a low price on the stock markets is a much safer option than relying on 1-2 shares or 1-2 houses.  It sounds obvious, but the culturally ingrained nature of property makes many blind to this fact. 

Key Points from section 1:2:

Housing can outperform markets short term, or even over a 10-15 year period, but hasn’t over an extended period. 
Housing on leverage like buy-to-let can increase your returns a lot, but that is risky, in the same way as buying stocks on leverage is. 
You shouldn’t speculate on 1-2 houses or 1-2 stocks.  Buying a broad basket is much less risky. 

1.3. - Property on Leverage

As per the last section, the only way you can beat stock markets with property long-term is through using leverage - mortgages and buy-to-let. This is riskier than investing in other forms of passive investments because interest rates may rise, tenants may not pay or even thrash the place! 

The repairs might be expensive, and the current political trend which is resulting in anger towards landlords might continue.  Already in the UK, capital gains on property is higher than other forms of capital gains.

If you want to invest in property and take these risks, there are some strategies that can be utilized. 

Example 1 - Asking Price £80,000

In the UK and elsewhere, cheaper houses in run-down areas often have better yields,  Let’s say you need to put down a deposit of £20,000 Pounds.  Believe it or not, for international readers, the UK still has many towns and even cities where you can buy for £80,000!

In addition to the £20,000, you may need to pay fees to lawyers and for surveys, which will probably cost about £1,400-£1,600.  Stamp Duty would cost around £2,400.  It is 0% for first-time buyers on cheap property, but 3% on buy to lets which cost £0 - £125,000.  Houses costing £125,001 - £250,000 is charged at 5%, and the rate goes up to a maximum of 13%.  The UK system is similar to many other countries which have sales taxes on buying property. 

Finally, regarding costs, let's say there are essential refurbishments that cost £900-£1,100. The total cost including deposit is £25,000.  In the UK, in an inner city area such as Manchester or Stoke-on-Trent, such property may rent for £575 per month based on houses in a similar area/price range.  Getting £600 is possible, and if you target students which is risky as it is a smaller population who don’t always look after housing, you can get even more if it works out. 

But let’s use the £575, to be safe.  From that we need a mortgage for £60,000 at 5% interest, which will cost £250 a month.  Management fees and insurance should come to £135, as an allowance for repairs at 10% of rent is fairly safe. 

Now let’s imagine that the property is vacant for 2 weeks a year.  One month every two years or two months every four years.  With all these rental figures and costs, we end up with a yearly profit of about £2,200, which is a return on investment of 8.8% per annum.  Longer-term if you get capital gains, the returns may be higher. 

If you keep buying a new property like this every eighteen months, and you do it for fifteen years, you will have a yearly rental income of £22,000 after fifteen years.  By year 6-7, it may even be possible to buy two properties a year rather than every 18 months, given the accumulative process of building up capital.

This example shows how leverage can work in property.  If somebody buys ten properties with this method, they would have spent £250,000, delivering an income of £22,000.  If cash was used instead, it would have only been possible to buy two properties, which would produce a yearly income of £10,200. 

There are other strategies when it comes to real estate investing, including buying a cheap run down property and spending a lot making it over.  This strategy though, is most effective for people who can do the work themselves, and therefore save on some of the fittings costs. 

Another strategy is to rent out a property to multiple tenants, especially in professional areas such as Milton Keynes or other commuter towns. Let’s say you buy the property for £190,000.  You would need to spend £7,000 on stamp duty, £10,000 on start up costs, £220 on repairs (10% again) and £593 on a mortgage if you get £142,500 borrowed on 5%.  Now let’s say you have 6 tenants paying £370 each, so total monthly income of £2,200.  This gives a return on investment of close to 17%, adjusted to costs.

The point is, that is hard work.  Finding a property where you can fit 6-7 people in and getting 6-7 trustworthy people who don’t leave quickly, isn’t easy.  Buying an S&P Index Fund takes less than 10 seconds. These property strategies can be time-consuming and full of risk.  You can beat the long-term average of 10% per annum stock market returns, but it will take a lot of work and tolerance for higher risk too. 

That is not to mention that many people can’t get mortgages at decent rates. For people with well-paying secure jobs, for example,  public sector workers such as doctors, the above strategy is less risky.   That doesn’t mean it isn’t low risk, as, without income protection insurance, the doctor may still lose their job, or public sector jobs may become more insecure.

For anybody who may lose their income, the above strategy can lead to ruin if something unexpected happens.  This is especially the case during a real estate downturn that regularly happens.  This is because leveraged gains through mortgages also apply the only way around - leveraged losses. 

Let’s look at this way.  Stock markets usually grow yearly.  Many stock markets around the world have a 70%+ `success rate` regarding providing yearly returns.  Markets, however, despite their good long-term performance, do sometimes go down or stay stagnant.  They occasionally take a few years to recover and often every 15-20 years there is a big crash. 

So somebody suggesting you take out debt, taking advantage of the close to 0% interest rates, to go into the markets is telling you to take a huge risk.  Your chances of repaying the loans and making money would be 70%+, and that would further increase your gains, compared to just using income from your job. But if it goes wrong, you could become bankrupt, depending on how much debt you took out. Buying houses on leverage is similar.  The failure rate for buy-to-let landlords isn’t low in the long-term.

Key Points from section 1:3:

Leveraged property can beat markets, but it is risky.  Very few people would suggest leveraging stock market gains, despite market rising more often than not, every year. 

If you do leverage your gains, it is best if you are a doctor, teacher or somebody else with a secure income, and ideally, have income protection insurance. 

1.4. - Buying vs renting

We haven’t yet focused on one thing.  Is renting or buying cheaper? We all need to live somewhere unless we live in the streets or with our family all our lives.  The simple answer is `it depends`.  The idea that renting is automatically dead money isn’t true; it can be cheaper. 

Usually, mortgages will cost people more than renting, but low-interest rates have changed that dynamic.  Interest rates won’t be low forever, though, and besides, one still has the buying costs and other initial costs of buying a property. Over a 25-50 year period, adjusted for costs, a property will need to have some capital growth to make buying cheaper than renting.

Historically, housing has gone up faster since 1945 than it did before.  A combination of strong economic growth, more women joined the workforce, populations rising sharply and interest rates being lowered to close to 0% after the financial crisis in 2008, has led to housing prices having a better run compared to previous generations. 

There are good reasons to believe that won’t continue.  Populations are aging and declining in some years in Germany, Japan and Russia.  They are going up slowly elsewhere in the developed world, only propped up by immigration numbers. The `one off` boast that came from women coming into the workforce and 0% interest rates for ten years won’t come again, unless interest rates become negative or it becomes socially normal for 3-4 friends to buy together, and therefore having a mortgage based on 3-4 incomes as opposed to 2 incomes now. 

Given all those factors, projections for the future are very uncertain.  Even now in the UK and US, something interesting is happening.  Something that hasn’t happened for decades.  There is now a `two-tier` housing market.  The first tier is the London’s and New York’s of this world.  A rich area, where capital grows is still possible, but rental yields aren’t rising, as there is only so many people can spend on rent.  Rents may have risen, but not as high proportionally as the cost of the real estate itself.

Then there are the places that have been left behind in the age of globalization.  Places in the Midlands and North in the UK, and numerous inner states in the US.  In such markets, real estate investors now aim for rental yields, not capital growth.  Inflation-adjusted, capital growth has been negative or neutral in many towns in the UK and US. 

This two-tier market isn’t to say prices are never falling in these big cities.  Right now, prices in London are falling, and falling hardest in the financial district, but slightly rising elsewhere in the UK.  Brexit is the main driver of this change, but the overall urbanization of the world isn’t going away, and its effects on house prices aren’t going away.

The Nationwide Building Society in the UK does indices where they estimate the price for new houses.  As of May 2018, the index was at £202,000 for the UK as a whole.  During 2007, it was at £178,000 at the top of the market before the Financial Crisis.  So average prices have risen by 13.6% in the UK over 11 years.  Or 1.23% per year. 

That is lower than inflation and even investors putting money in the bank could have earned more than that, if they tie up their money for 1-2 years in bonds.  The average has also been affected by some regions, like London, that has performed well.  Some areas are down 20%-25% from the peak, despite the UK government stimulating prices in 2013 with a `Help to Buy` program that increased prices.

The Help to Buy Scheme was a program in the UK where the government agreed to help first time buyers get on the market.  Rather than build more homes to increase supply, and ensure prices are more affordable, the government tried to help young people by subsidizing their deposits. Talk about trying to inflate the housing market!

What is more interesting is that prices are up only 2.6% in the last year, until May 2018.  Despite Brexit, the UK economy has been growing for five years now, and was the fastest growing economy in the G8 from 2013-2016.  This also meant immigration numbers increased again after the post financial crisis decline, therefore raising housing demand.  Coupled with the Help to Buy Program which started during this strong recovery, you would have expected house prices to have skyrocketed.    These figures illustrate that housing isn’t a one-way bet, and may continue to underperform markets in the future. 

In the US, a similar situation exists.  As a much bigger country than the UK, the picture is even more complicated.  The New York Times has an excellent calculator online for estimating whether you are better off renting or buying (https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/upshot/buy-rent-calculator.html).

In some other developed countries, the picture is even bleaker.  Housing in Japan has never recovered from the bubble years, despite going up in the last ten years, and especially in the run-up to the Olympics.  We will wait to see if the UK and US, or at least some parts of the countries, face the same fate. 

You may think these problems are just an issue for the advanced economies, with their aging populations.  How about the fast-growing economies of the east? Unfortunately for property investors, some similar trends can be seen.  Not just similar in terms of populations aging, but in other ways too.

Let’s look at an extreme example; China.  In China, people are maybe even more obsessed with buying property than in my native UK. Supply and demand is such that a house that costs $3million can sometimes only fetch rent of $3,000 a year.  The rental yield in China is often as low as 1%.  That tells you that renting is likely to be much cheaper than buying unless the capital growth keeps up going yet higher. 

All around the world, as more and more young people are choosing cities over the countryside and small towns, demand for buying houses isn’t going up in many countries in less fashionable areas.

I am not suggesting nobody should buy a house.  If you spend 10%-20% of your retirement portfolio buying a house, you will be able to budget better for retirement, and have the security of not caring about rent increases.  The key point is that is better to buy the least housing for your needs, rather than the most housing.

Key Points from section 1:4

Renting can be cheaper than buying.  If you buy, it is only cheaper if the house has capital gains above inflation. 

Rental yields are a good indicator of how cheap renting is.  If, as is the case in China, rental yields are as low as 1%-2%, renting is usually cheaper. 
There are some structural reasons why house prices have been struggling for more than a decade in many towns across the world, as people move to cities. 

1.5 : Emerging Markets Property and land

Emerging market property has been super-hot in the last ten years - at least certain types of emerging markets.  Brazil, South Africa, Egypt and many other previous hot markets are now in crisis, due to political and other considerations.  Emerging markets, in general, are more high-risk/high-gain than the developed world. 

Countries with unstable political systems have more political and social risks. As stability and lack of volatility are completely different concepts, regimes in China and other autocratic regimes also pose a political risk.

The Arab Spring started in 2011 after an angry Tunisian man set himself on fire, and that started protests around the region, which got rid of various regimes, including in Egypt.  Nobody could have predicted such an event.  It was a `Black Swan ` event as Nassim Taleb would have put it. A hard to predict and highly detrimental event to those in power.

Some would say the Financial Crisis in 2008 was also a Black Swan event.  Recessions often happen, but every 70-100 years, they can be particularly bad, often due to political inaction and unexpected events.  If Lehman Brothers was saved, and the huge panic that resulted from that event therefore didn’t occur, the Financial Crisis wouldn’t have been so severe.

Governments around the world reacted to the economic crisis by learning the lessons of the 1930s. The  huge stimulus was unleashed all around the world.  Interest rates were slashed to close, to 0% and Quantitative Easing was started, pumping extra money into the economy.

As a percentage of GDP, China stimulated more than America, and much more than the European Union.  The Chinese Government has been trying to stimulate the housing and consumer sectors, as exporting to America and Europe become a less certain endeavor.

Prices have soared.  I visited Shenzhen in 2007.  At that time, it was possible to buy in certain districts of the city for 30,000 Pound Sterling, which at the time was 450,000RMB-500,000RMB. Prices have increased exponentially.  Anybody who buys houses in China or similar markets is taking a huge, potentially expensive, risk.

Anybody who read Thomas Piketty’s acclaimed book Capital will know his basic thesis is that inequality, historically, goes up for a simple reason.  As wages tend to rise at about 2%  above inflation, but government bonds increase by 3% or more, property at 4% or more adjusted for costs and stocks by 5%+ adjusted for costs (and 6% or more in the US), people with capital have a long-term advantage.

I am not suggesting nobody should buy property, and indeed property can be bought on leverage and create cash flows if you find renters.  But the only way to beat markets in the long-term (25-50 years) is to take huge risks.  Buy in emerging markets and take the risk that what happened in Egypt and Tunisia recently, or China, Cambodia and countless other former leftist countries historically in the 1960s and 1970s, won’t happen again and you won’t have your property confiscated.  

Or you could take the risk and become a buy-to-let landlord, and hope interest rates don’t rise, there is no expensive redecoration or other costs, and your tenants always pay on time.   Another factor about housing is that people forget about net costs.  If you have an online fund account, you will see your net returns after fees are taken out.

In comparison, with property, if you spend $50 on petrol/gas plus $1000 on repairs after a tenant destroys the house, you may forget about that cost when you come to sell the house in 10-20 years.  I honestly think the simplicity of housing, the culturally ingrained nature of the investment coupled with the difficulty in calculating cost is the main reasons for its continued popularity. 

Even worse, many people plan to use their house as a pension.  On this thinking, one should downside the house, and use the money to fund retirement.  Housing isn’t a liquid asset.  It isn’t easy to find a buyer quickly and the housing market moves in cycles. Even if you can find a buyer, the housing markets cycles can be huge.  Few could have funded a good retirement in 2008 on selling a house.

Key Points from section 1:5

Property in emerging markets has huge social and political risks. 

Historically, property has been confiscated by many governments around the world.  Buying in countries which confiscated property as recently as 40 years ago is a huge risk. 
Emerging markets, like leveraged property, can be higher gain if things work out.  But you can also lose more. 

1.6 REITS and when direct property goes wrong

If you really want to use property for anything else apart from a home, REITs are arguably the best option.  REITs are real estate companies that invest in income producing property such as hospitals.  REITs must give 90% of their income back to investors.  REITS sometimes outperform the S&P, and sometimes the S&P outperforms REITS. 

A $100,000 investment in a Vanguard REIT index in 1996 would have grown to over $740,000 by the end of 2015, producing a 10.8% annual return, assuming dividends were reinvested, which is slightly higher than the S&P.   REITs come with some of the benefits of physical real estate, without the hassle of finding tenants and the other high costs.

Greg Fisher, who writes for Forbes, compared two scenarios.  A portfolio of 60% stocks and 40% bonds, and one which included 10% in REITs.  He looked at 1990 to 2010, and found a portfolio which contained 10% REITS averaged 8.83% per year as opposed to 8.72% per year, and was less volatile, as REITS performed during periods where stocks underperformed. 

The previously mentioned statistics are facts, but a story or a picture can paint a thousand words.  When I think about property and land investments going wrong, I can think about three examples of people I have known.

It was 2013 and I was new to Shanghai, starting my first broker-finance job overseas.  My first manager in the industry, Martin, was from a property background. He was in the real estate industry in the UK before coming overseas, buying, selling and renovating property, and managing his own property company. 

He was becoming progressively wealthier, and wanted to go on an expansion across Europe, as more countries were joining the Eurozone in 2007-2008.  Due to freedom of capital rules in the EU, a British company or person can invest freely in the emerging markets of Eastern and Central Europe.  If the expansion would have gone well, he would have been super wealthy.  By super wealthy, I mean one of the wealthiest people in Europe. 

To cut a long story short, Martin ended up with just one home in London and a few thousand in the bank.  How did that happen? How did a successful business person who had 25+ years of continued success, fall so far?

Most of the people reading this will know that there was a credit crisis about a year before the full-blown financial and economic crisis of 2007, and it started with housing in the US in 2006.  The winds spread to the UK, Europe and further afar.  Lending became more difficult and house prices fell. Not as hard as in the US, but they fell. 

He needed to sell off existing stock to fund his business, including paying salaries and other expenses.  Some loans went back, and some of his investors panicked, wanting to sell their properties.  One thing led to another, and a vicious cycle led to the end.

With any illiquid asset which is bought on debt/leverage, if something goes wrong, such a vicious cycle can be the result.  Even if we go down a notch or two from Martin, it isn’t unusual for successful buy-to-let investors to eventually become bankrupt if they get into cash flow issues due to rising interest rates or any other issue that affects cash flow.

The two other examples that stick to my mind were in SE Asia.  In Indonesia I met a man called Jeffrey.  I rented from him, and he was originally from Europe.  He boasted to me about the fact his condos in Jakarta had doubled in price in 3 years. He was so happy with the `returns` that he tried to sell one of them in 2014.  As of today, he has still failed to sell.  His investments aren’t worth $0, as he can of course get rental income from it. 

However, he initially purchased the property for $75,000.  Until he recoups the money through rents, he is down overall.  Just because a real estate agent gives you a valuation showing the property is worth x and y in USD, your property isn’t worth that much until a buyer is willing to pay that amount of money.  

An illiquid asset such as property, gold or art can’t be sold as easily as liquid assets, and the price you will receive might surprise you for the good or the bad.  In some parts of the world, moreover, people are cultural not inclined to buy `second-hand homes`, which makes finding a buyer difficult. 

I saw a similar situation in Cambodia.  A well-known expat in Phnom Penh, who I will call Andy, purchased some land in the Siem Reap area.  The value of the land soared, and has continued to increase.  However, much the same as Jeffrey, he has failed to get a buyer to this day. He has resorted to looking for businesses to pay rent on the land.  An S&P tracker fund or a REIT tracker fund, in comparison, can be sold on the same day.  

Key Points from section 1:6

One of the biggest reasons for property failure is liquidity - not finding a buyer and getting into cash flow difficulties. 

People assume they have `made` a lot of money due to valuation.  Your asset is close to worthless if you can’t sell it. 
Property goes wrong more frequently than many people realize. 
REITs are a cheaper way to gain access to property. 
A diversified portfolio which has REITs within them can outperform a 100% stock portfolio and is less volatile. 

1.7 - Government Bonds

We have touched on property and gold.  How about government bonds?  They have also underperformed stocks, so should we not invest in bonds at all then?  Warren Buffett suggests having 90% of a portfolio in stocks and 10% in bonds, while Vanguard’s Founder Jack Bogle suggests a 70%-30% distribution.  There are sound reasons for this despite close to 0% interest rates. While stocks do historically outperform bonds they do go through difficult periods.

Somebody who invested in the US Stock Market on January 1, 2000, after the incredible returns of the 1980s and especially 1990s, would have had to wait 11 years to see returns, assuming they invested in a lump sum and couldn’t invest in subsequent years at lower prices.  The tech bubble of the late 1990s, 9/11 in 2001 and then the financial crisis of 2008, all hit stock prices, just as they were recovering.

Sure a rational investor would have been happy and invested more, when markets were down. They would certainly have been rewarded, with markets performing very strongly from 2009 until today, but the evidence shows most people panic when this happens.  Bonds usually go up when markets are down, allowing people to rebalance by selling those bonds and buying stocks. People with such a diversified portfolio, are more likely to stay the course, and keep investing.

Importantly as well, even though stocks outperform bonds over the very long-term, that doesn’t mean a diversified mixed portfolio of bonds and stocks won’t beat 100% in stocks over quite an extensive period.

Take the 16 year period between 1996 and 2012.  The S&P US Market didn’t do well by historical average, returning 6.92% per annum, compared to the normal 10%-10.5% per annum.  Since 2012 and between 1986-1996, the S&P produced better returns, even higher than average returns.  But nobody can predict the future for sure, and unless somebody is ` ultra long-term`, it makes sense to have some of your assets in government bonds.

Between 1996-2012, somebody with 40% in government bonds and 60% in US markets would have produced a performance of 7.01%, around 0.09% per annum more than the 100% stock market portfolio.  Over a 16 year period, that extra 0.09% per annum adds up.

Even more interestingly, if we look at returns between 2000 and 2007, the mixed 60%-40% bond index would have performed much better.  The figures below look at average returns in a 100% US stock market portfolio, compared to portfolios with 20%-40% bond allocations, for the period since 1987. 

The evidence is clear.  Stocks do outperform bonds, but there are numerous time periods when a mixed portfolio will outperform, meaning you are less likely to get cold feet about investing.  Keeping your bond allocation to 20%-30% will simply mean your portfolio is less volatile and won’t harm returns as much as investing in a super conservative 50%+ bond allocation.

Year Period100% stocks80% stocks, 20% bonds60% stocks, 40% bonds
1987-199115.01%13.92%12.79%
1992-199615.07%13.5%11.91%
1997-200110.66%10.32%9.81%
2002-20065.92%6.07%6.07%
2007-2011-0.53%1.51%3.05%
2012-201614.49%12.08%9.63%
1996-20126.92%7.07%7.01%
1987-201610.01%9.47%8.80%

Using data from portfoliovisualizer.com and assetbuilder.com.  Based on Vanguard’s S&P Index and the Vanguard Total Bond Market Index Fund

As government bonds tend to pay out interest even when the economy is bad and rise in value during deflationary recessions, they are a deflation hedge, whereas stocks perform especially well in inflationary situations. 

Key Points from section 1:7:

Even though bonds underperform over the long-term, it makes sense to have at least 25% of your portfolio in government bonds. 

People get cold feet about investing during bad periods for stocks.  This emotion affects long-term gains.  Having bonds within your portfolio decreases the chance you will get cold feet investing. 

1.8 - International stocks

What about international stocks then, including emerging markets?  Should an investor just invest in their home markets or the highly performing US markets?  There are different opinions in this area for investors.  Vanguard’s Founder Jack Bogle recommends people residing in the US should only invest in US markets.  As most US companies indirectly make money overseas, and the US is a more innovative market than Japan or Western Europe, Bogle believes it isn’t worth the hassle.  At most, he suggests, investing 10% of a portfolio in international stocks. 

It is true that the US S&P has outperformed most international stock markets.  With that being said, in the same way as bonds will reduce portfolio's volatility, investing in a diversified portfolio of international and local stocks will smooth out the investing ride.  This is because all markets go through good and bad periods.

If we look at the data over time, the markets that perform well one year or one decade, don’t always replicate that performance, so diversifying is key.  For US expats living overseas, moreover, it is important to minimize currency risks.

The chart below looks at somebody who has invested in pounds in the last five years, using Hargreaves Lansdown as the broker:

Market2013-20142014-20152015-20162016-20172017-2018
Fidelity US Index10.20%24.17%5.83%32.21%7.04%
Vanguard FTSE 100 Index11.09%7.01%-7.56%14.53%6.44%
HSBC FTSE 250 index15.82%13.28%-0.81%18.85%6.03%
Vanguard Developed Europe excluding UK14.98%6.84%-4.19%28.58%7.21%
Vanguard Emerging Markets-9.94%18.26%-13.94%34.49%13.28%
Japanese Nikkei isharesn/a31.75%-3.76%29.57%13.14%

Glancing at the above, we can see that the FTSE250 outperformed in 2013-2014 while Emerging Markets outperformed in 2016-2017 and the US markets have generally outperformed over the five year period. If we looked at historical data over a 100 year period, we would see even bigger swings.  The US Markets had a particularly bad time after the 1999 Nasdaq Crash and 9/11 in 2001. 

The above figures have also been influenced by currency, as the UK currency fell after Brexit, which means investors investing in Pound Sterling in 2016-2018, gained from the falls in the Pound Sterling. 

The point is, nobody can predict the future.  Few predicted Brexit in 2016 or many other geopolitical events. There are so many unknown unknowns and known unknowns, that the most rational thing an investor can do is to diversify their portfolio.

The only exceptions may be for Americans.  The US is still the most innovative market in the world, and for Americans living in America, it may make sense to keep the portfolio to the US stock market and US bonds, and to avoid international stocks.  Personally, I think a bit of diversification for US investors, still makes sense. 

The fact that in common currency terms, the US markets haven’t performed as well as some others after Trump’s election is a point in question.  The fall in the US dollars after years of strength means that US markets haven’t performed as well in the last 18 months, compared to many emerging markets and several other stock markets.

Even with a stable democracy, and a constitution that has lasted for hundreds of years, the US isn’t immune from political instability.  People shouldn’t take radical decisions with their portfolios based on elections.  Adding a small amount of insurance in the form of bonds and international exposure is rational. 

Key Points from section 1:8:

1. It makes sense to have a diversified portfolio to include international stocks.  The only possible exception is Americans living in America, rather than Americans living overseas.

1.9. Fees, ETFs and tracker funds

Thus far we have spoken about which assets perform better and are less risky.   One thing we haven’t spoken about yet in detail is net returns, after fees.  You get what you pay for is an expression used in the UK and many other countries around the world. In most industries, it is true, even though there isn’t always a direct correlation between the two.

Flying business class isn’t 5 or 10 times better than flying economy.  Having a suite in a 5- star hotel isn’t 20-30 better than a budget hotel.  When people pay for luxury they are paying for an experience, but they certainly get more for their money even if it isn’t proportionate.   They don’t usually get less for paying more, but in investing, higher fees usually lead to lower performance!  Sounds counterintuitive but it is usually the case. 

One of the biggest reasons for this is compounding.  In the same way that gains get compounded, fees also compound.  The difference between paying 2% and 1% a year may not sound like a lot, but over time, they can be the difference between a comfortable retirement and one where you struggle.

Take hedge funds as a typical example.  They are the funds that the super-rich and wealthy often prefer.  David Tepper, of Appaloosa Management, made $3.5 billion, in 2014. Not a bad year’s work!  How did the investors do though?  Not too good. In a year when the S&P gained 32%, investors in the top hedge funds only gave investors back 7.4% after fees, on average.

Fees are a huge reason for this underperformance.  If you invest with a hedge fund, you need to pay $2,000 for each $100,000 you invest or $20,000 for every $1m you invest.  In comparison, you can invest in a tracker fund for $100 for every $100,000 you invest or $1,000 for every $1M you invest.  In addition to this, hedge funds charge a 20% performance fee on top of the 2%, meaning 20% of your gains are gobbled up in fees.

A separate issue is to beat the markets consistently is difficult.  Look at it this way; nobody could have predicted that the economic crisis of 2008 would have led to China stimulating its housing sector, or that commodities would have risen by 50%-500% in 2011, before falling hard after that.

People trying to beat the market, moreover, need to buy and sell every time they make a trade.  This increases fees, and the mountain you have to climb to beat the market rises.

Some hedge funds have outperformed the market in some years, and some will in future.  One of Paulson’s funds gained more than sixty percent, but some of its other funds underperformed the markets badly. 

So surely what a smart investor needs to do is to invest in the winners? The issue is, today’s winners are seldom tomorrow’s winners.  The aforementioned fund which produced 60%+ will no doubt vastly underperform the markets sometime in the future.

Surely there are some `star investment managers` who can consistently beat the market year in, year out, over decades?  The evidence suggests this is difficult.  In the UK, one of the star managers is Neil Woodford.  He is one manager who beat the FTSE 100 consistently from 1999 until 2015, although the FTSE markets did underperform the US Markets in that period.

It is understandable then that many investors were excited when he started a new fund, the Equity Income Fund.  In 2017, his fund returned just 0.8%, while the FTSE All Shares (this includes the FTSE 100, FTSE 250, FTSE 350 and smaller shares) returned 13.8%.  In 2016, he didn’t perform much better, returning just 3.2%, as compared to 16.8% for the FTSE All Shares.   Emerging markets and US Markets returned more than 20% in this period.

This example shows that even for the small number of `star fund managers` who outperform over a 10-15 year period, such performances don’t always continue.

All the academic evidence suggests that you do have a 20% chance of beating the market over a 5 year period.  This chance though decreases to less than 2% over a lifetime investing (40-50 years), adjusted for the buying and selling fees.

Given the previous information, investing in passive assets such as ETF tracker funds has huge advantages.   ETF’s, or exchange-traded funds, provide cheap, liquid, low-cost access to almost all areas of the financial markets.   ETF tracker funds simply track the index, like the US Stock Market or the UK Stock Market.  It removes the risks of having a bad asset manager, or high compounding costs.  An ETF index and tracker funds though have produced one big problem. Many people are using these passive strategies to try to be an `active investor`. 

In other words, they are buying one index, let’s say the US S&P, and then they are selling quickly and buying an emerging markets tracker fund.  After Trump’s election and Brexit, some people sold their positions in those markets, increasing fees in the process.

This strategy doesn’t make sense, as it is based on speculation.  It makes sense to have a small number of funds, which are diversified, and you simply rebalance once a year if one asset performs much better than the others.

As the average expense ratio of an S&P tracker fund can be as low as 0.03%, as opposed to the average 1.3% per year, it makes no sense to keep trading low-cost ETFs. You will eventually increase costs, because most trading platforms charge for trading.  Beyond costs ETF’s are also very transparent.  Many hedge funds and mutual funds report their performance every three months. 

This also means a fund manager may decide to buy a stock without your knowledge, and be taking risks in the process.  Index-linked ETFs eliminate this risk as most are daily traded, and as they are linked to the major index, there is no fund manager risk by definition.

The benefits don’t end there as ETFs are also liquid.  They can be traded on the secondary market at various times during the day, so that you can have access to your money almost instantly.  This shouldn’t be abused, or become an excuse to panic or engage in speculation.

Compared to mutual funds, ETFs are also more tax efficient because there is a lower portfolio turnover and the ability to do in-kind redemptions.  This deferral of tax until an investor sells can make a big difference to returns. 

There are many types of ETFs, including those which are based on physical assets such as gold.  The best strategy is to buy an index-linked ETF, and we will go over some model portfolios in the next section. 

Key Points from section 1:9:

ETF’s are tax efficient. 

ETFs and tracker funds are increasingly used to speculate.  Don’t get into that habit. 
Investment fees have a huge effect on investment returns. 
ETF and tracker funds can be great long-term investments. 
Past performance is seldom repeated.  Picking winners is almost impossible. 

2. Model Portfolios

In Part 1, I spoke about the fact stock markets outperform other investments over time and how the evidence suggests the average investor shouldn’t speculate on individual stocks, and instead `buy the market`.  This means buying a fund which invests in every share on the market such as an S&P tracker fund.  

Given this academic data, people should model their portfolios based on their age, nationality and where they live, using low-cost index-linked funds.  The below information isn’t an exact science.  As I mentioned, a portfolio which is 100% in stocks will probably outperform a portfolio which also has government bonds, but increasing the bond allocation as you age isn’t a bad strategy. 

Portfolios which have bonds within them are also more likely to last you through retirement, as occasionally market falls are large enough to dent retirement pots.

For the model portfolios below, the best ETFs or funds are often provided by Vanguard, iShares or a few other firms.  The fees are very similar. For UK investors, HSBC has some of the cheapest funds, with the HSBC FTSE 250 Tracker being one of the cheapest in its class.

I would advise readers not to get overly preoccupied with choices. Jack Bogle said in an interview that for most investors, choice is a bad thing, “Choice is your enemy because you choose based on one thing: past performance.  But past performance does not recur.”  So the best thing to do is to look for the cheapest index funds.

With that being said don’t worry about 0.10% vs. 0.09% fees or some small details.  Don’t overcomplicate the task at hand. Just focus on building a simple, low-cost, diversified portfolio.  With the benefits of time and staying invested for the long-term, the rest will fall into place.

For ultra-simple portfolios, an investor can hold two indexes.  An international stock markets ETF and international bond index.  I would suggest having 3-4 indexes.  One, your home country’s index if your home country has a well-established stock exchange, and also emerging markets alongside international stock and bonds index.

The following example portfolios are also adjusted to a person’s age, and depending on their nationality:

Model portfolios for American citizens and expats under 40 - 

60% US Stock Markets,

20% International stock markets,

10% Emerging stock markets

10% US short-term government bonds

Model portfolios for American citizens and expats over 40 - 

50% US Stock Markets,

20% International stock markets,

5%  Emerging stock markets

25% US government bonds

Model portfolios for American citizens and expats over 55 or close to retirement -

50% US Stock Markets,

20% International stock markets,

30% US government bonds

Model portfolios for British citizens and expats under 40 -

40% UK FTSE All Shares

40% International stock markets,

10% Emerging stock markets

10% Global government bonds index

Model portfolios for British citizens and expats over 40 - 

35% UK FTSE All Shares

35% International stock markets,

5%  Emerging stock markets

25% Global government bonds index

Model portfolios for British citizens and expats over 55 or close to retirement -

35% UK FTSE All Shares

35% International stock markets,

30% Global government bonds index

Model portfolios for European citizens and expats under 40 - 

40% Euro Shares

40% International stock markets,

10% Emerging stock markets

10% Global government bonds index

Model portfolios for European citizens and expats over 40 - 

35% European All Shares

35% International stock markets,

5%   Emerging stock markets

25% Global government bonds index

Model portfolios for European citizens and expats over 55 or close to retirement -

35% European All Shares

35% International stock markets,

30% Global government bonds index

From the above figures, one can work out what kind of portfolio you should be aiming at, depending on your nationality. If you are from a country which hasn’t got a history of having a local stock market, such as if you are from a smaller European or Asian country such as Slovakia or Cambodia, it would be sensible to have a `globally aligned` portfolio.

That means having a portfolio which approximately resembles the international stock market, regarding distribution. The Vanguard Developed World Index is comprised of about 65% in US stocks (as the biggest market), followed by bigger markets such as Japan, France, Germany and so on.  Smaller markets by capitulation are also on the fund but account for a small percentage of the index.  For expats who are moving from country to country, having a similar strategy to the above makes sense. 

For investors who want a diversified portfolio which includes REITs and international stocks, I would suggest the following portfolio:

10%- Global REIT ETF.  Either iShares or Vanguard

55% - Vanguard Total World Stock Market ETF

35%​- Vanguard short-term inflation protection securities ETF

Key Points from section 2:1

Have a well-diversified portfolio which consists of your home markets stock exchange, international stocks and international bonds.  

Including 10% REITS isn’t a bad idea. 
The percentage of your portfolio in government bonds should depend on how close you are to retirement. 

2:2. - Should you invest in the model portfolios in a lump sum or using dollar cost averaging?

Regarding investment strategies, a lot of people are unnerved by huge falls and rises in markets.  I remember when I lived in Cambodia I met a gentleman from Scandinavia.  He has a Masters in Finance, and yet he told me in 2015 he was worried about `investing now given how markets are`.  In other words, he was worried about volatility.  Markets have gone up 40%-50% since I spoke to him. 

Granted, his Masters in Finance was probably in corporate finance/accountancy rather than something related to investment finance.  However, as mentioned previously, human nature is heavily influenced by volatility.  We are hardwired to be afraid of volatility and confuse stability and volatility. 

Many strategies are used to try to smooth out this volatility.  One is called Dollar Cost Averaging (DCA).   This is where you invest monthly, to smooth out the average price.  You can earn money this way even if markets are falling, as you are paying an average price.

The below example shows how this might work in real life:

DatePrice per shareSharesCost
January 1$40100$4,000
February 1$30133.32$4,000
March 1$20200$4,000
April 1$36111.1$4,000

Total544.42$16,000
Average price per share$29.38

Using the above example of $36 a share, down from $40 a share on January 1, the investor’s portfolio would be worth $19,599.12 ($36x 544.42 shares), from a $16,000 investment.  This is despite markets still being down.  The investor has gained from falling markets and will gain more once the price hits $40 again.  A lump sum investor, in comparison, would still be down 10%, after buying at $40 and seeing the price hit $36. 

While the above example shows why investors shouldn’t panic when markets are falling and should continue to invest, does this mean that if you have a lump sum, you should invest it gradually rather than in one go?  Would investing $120,000 over a year in $10,000 monthly amounts, or investing $1,000 a month over ten years, be more sensible than investing a lump sum?

Vanguard has done a case study based on somebody who has a $1m lump sum, but the same would apply to lump sums of $100,000.  They looked at how likely the sum lump would have underperformed the dollar cost averaging strategy in 10 year periods, between 1926 and 2011.  

They also looked at the Australian and UK markets, although they looked at the UK markets from only 1976 onwards and the Australian markets from 1984.  They found that investing the lump sum won 67% of the time over the ten year period.  DCA won 33% of the time. 

Over longer periods (25-50 years) lump sums win ever more often for an obvious reason; markets tend to rise fast over time.  On a global level, only somebody investing in the Japanese Nikkei, which hit more than 36,000 during the Bubble, before falling to 7,000 in 2009 and rising to 22,000+ in 2018, would have benefitted from a dollar cost averaging approach.

Of course, in the real world, few investors only ever have one lump sum.  As most people are paid a salary or regularly get yearly bonuses, a rational investor will probably need to invest monthly or quarterly.  However, the above evidence shows if you do get a lump sum from a bonus at work or due to inheritance, it makes sense to put it in in one go.

Above all else, intentionally investing a lump sum in increments is trying to time markets. Warren Buffett once said, “Stock market forecasters exist to make fortune tellers look good.” Nobody knows when the next market crash will come.  Keeping your money in cash, waiting for the next crash, is an even worse strategy. 

The Dow Jones hit a low of 7,300 in 2009 after the economic crisis, before striking 26,600 in early 2018.  The market hasn’t hit such low levels since 1997.  But the market was at 800 in 1978, 1,200 in 1985 and 3,000 in 1993. Keeping money in cash at low-interest rates, and waiting for markets to crash, doesn’t work.  That isn’t to mention that markets only fall as hard as 2009 in 50-100 year periods, and very few people waited until 7,300 to buy.  Many people invested their lump sums after the Dow fell 10%-20% after the stock market crash. 

Key Points from section 2:2:

If you have a lump sum, invest it in the market straight away, rather than investing it gradually. 

2.3 - Assets to Avoid in any Model Portfolio

There are certain types of assets the vast majority of investors should avoid in their portfolios.  Often complicated, illiquid and high cost, these assets should be avoided for the most part.  Below I will go through a number that should be avoided:

Assets with high fees - As mentioned in part 1, funds with high fees should be avoided. Fees can be seen in the total expense ratios.  High fee assets, unfortunately, aren’t as potentially destructive as some other asset classes listed below though.

Structured Products - Structured products, sometimes referred to as structures notes, are hugely complex financial instruments.  Despite all the reading I have done, I don’t think I am close to fully understanding these instruments.  I have yet to meet an investment professional who knows them inside out.  The lack of simplicity is one of the issues with these notes, and yet they are becoming more popular as they often come with certain `investment guarantees` and protection.

A structured product will usually comprise numerous components.  Often they will include one riskier stock or index.  As an example, a technology structures note may comprise of IBM, Apple, Google and one random company few people have heard of.  Let’s call this company ABC Technology.

A typically structured note is based on either individual stocks (super risky) or funds or indexes (less risky).  There is some protection.  Let’s say the note is based on 8% per annum returns and the protective barrier is 30%, the investor won’t lose money unless the underlying assets don’t fall by more than 30%.  Falls that high do occasionally happen especially due to the one riskier stock.  Using the example above, if ABC Technology falls by more than 30%, the whole note may fail, even if the other three assets do well. 

Importantly if the structured note fails, unlike an ETF index tracker or other liquid investment, you can’t wait for your investment to recover. Your investment has failed, and these investments can go to $0.

There is also the counter party risk and custodian. Lehman Brothers sold many structured notes.  There are still unpaid bills to this day.  So you could potentially lose all your investment if something goes wrong.  Since the financial crisis and QE, many of these investments haven’t failed, but with rising interest rates, the percentage of failures will almost certainly increase.

Finally, there is also the currency risk.  Investors can always have this risk when investing in international property, but with structured notes, it can be a bigger issue.  If you have, as an example, a structured note that is based on 4-5 markets, those markets will have separate currencies. 

As an example, let’s say a structured note is based on the FTSE 100, Dow Jones and the Japanese Nikkei, with a 30% protection barrier, meaning that investors don’t lose money unless the underlying assets fall by more than 30%. Now let’s say this note is a US dollar note.  If the FTSE or Japanese Nikkei fall by 15%, but the currencies also fall by 15.1% against the USD, the 30% barrier in USD terms will breached. This would have happened during the falls in the UK market after Brexit, as the falls were compounded by the depreciation of the UK Pound Sterling.

The structured note also is capped in their returns, often at 8%-12%.  This sounds good on the surface.  An 8%-12% return if markets or the assets don’t fall by 30%. But you are capping your potential returns at a level which is similar to historical averages, therefore meaning you will be miss out if the markets have a good year and rise by 15%-20%+, while also increasing your risks in the process.

Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes

An unregulated collective investment scheme is sometimes referred to as a ‘pooled investment.’  It is a fund that several people contribute to. A fund manager will invest the pooled money in one or more types of asset, such as stocks, bonds or property, according to the UK Financial Conduct Authority.

The FCA goes on to say that “These schemes can’t be promoted to the general public in the UK but can be proposed to some limited types of investor, including:

​​- Certified high net worth investors

​​- Sophisticated investors

​​- Self-certified sophisticated investors

​​- Existing investors in UCIS

Despite this rule, the FCA “has seen evidence that ordinary members of the public are being sold UCIS, with some customers being advised to invest their self-invested personal pension (SIPP) into a UCIS”.

They go onto say, “this is not recommended for most people as unregulated collective investment schemes by their nature are risky products, and because we do not regulate them, you may not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong.”

In the UK and many other countries, UCIS are banned to the general public, as they are at high risk by definition.  Many firms can pool investors money together, and in recent years there have been countless failures in the overseas market.  Often sold to expats and locals in unregulated markets, the following funds have failed:

-    The LM fund.

-    Centurion Defined Return, Life Settlements fund, and Argent Fund

-    The Glenmore Property

-    Harlequin Property

-    CF Arch Cru Investment and Diversified Funds

-    Countless others which can’t all be listed in a 100 page+ book!

The founder of LM, Peter Drake, is now facing criminal charges for fraud.  Many of the other schemes aren’t run by fraudsters but often have poor liquidity.  In the case of many property funds that meant selling off physical properties if investors asked for their money back, leading to a vicious cycle, and then finally panic and a stampede of investors looking to leave.

I would say that the amount of fraud in financial services is exaggerated.  In developed markets, there aren’t loads of examples of Ponzi schemes and other frauds these days.  99% or more of investment funds aren’t scams.  I wrote this eBook partly on a plane.  One of the three movies I watched was based on investment fraud, and another spoke about it during the movie!

These scare stories put people off investing, but this isn’t a sensible strategy.  A rational investor shouldn’t be put off investing by a few bad cases but should be aware of those that do exist.

Key Points from section 2:3

As a general rule, avoid illiquid and opaque assets such as structured notes and unregulated collective investments. 

Avoid high fee investments.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A765

3.  Online platforms

After speaking about the model portfolios on the last page, how do you buy such investments?  One option is to pay somebody a fee.  This fee is worth it if the professional keeps your investing costs down, helps you think about your objectives and encourages you to save more.

If you want to invest yourself, you need to find a good online broker and platform.  There are countless such platforms online, and the best ones will depend on where you are located, your nationality and so on.  Below I will list some of the best platforms for DIY Investors:

People living in the UK: 

Hargreaves Lansdown.  A FTSE100 company, with fees from 0.50%, going down to 0.25% for larger portfolios.

Vanguard Online - 0.15% account fees on accounts up to £250,000 and free after that.  On larger account fees, the account fee is capped at £375.  Funds from 0.06% per year, means total realistic costs of 0.21%- 0.3% per annum.

Living overseas - expat platforms:

Interactive Brokers.  As cheap as some of the options below, with commissions as low as $4-$8 per trade.  It is based in the US, so non-US taxpayers may consider another choice, as there could be longer term tax implications.

Saxo Bank - Cheaper on smaller accounts compared to Internaxx. The minimum investment is $10,000.  Saxo Bank charges around $15 equivalent for trading and a custody charges of 0.12% p.a, with a monthly minimum fee of EUR 5.00. Transfers of stocks to your account outside Saxo Bank incur a €100-€160 exit charge.  No trades for six months will mean you incur $100 equivalent inactivity charge.  Like Interactive Brokers, cheap for smaller accounts. 

Internaxx (formerly TD Direct) - Cheaper than Saxo Bank for larger accounts, as no 0.12% fee applies.  No minimum investment, but more expensive on smaller accounts than Saxo, due to flat fees.  Stocks and ETF trades are between €14.95 to €50 and up to 0.09% commission, with the lower amount typically.  For `buy and hold` investors, a quarterly charge of 45 Euros applies. 

Realistically, the total costs are $300 a year.  For somebody with only $30,000, this isn’t a cheap option, but for larger accounts, it is a steal. 

Internaxx isn’t available to investors in Bangladesh and Indonesia and a few other destinations. They can now take investors from Japan, as of January 2018. 

Living in America:

Vanguard Online - comparable fees to Vanguard UK.

Fidelity -  Commissions as low as $4.95

TD Ameritrade - Comparable to some of the online brokers available to expats.

Living in mainland Europe

Degiro - The negatives is that it doesn’t have any research, but it is low cost.  Has some free ETFs.  Most stocks and ETF have a flat fee, such as 1-2 Euros plus 0.02% or a small percentage.  It is available for UK investors as well. 

3:1 - Does do it yourself work?

A better question to ask now, is, does DIY investing work?   For the majority, unfortunately, it doesn’t.  The S&P has historically produced about 10.5% per year as mentioned before, but the average investor has made about 2%-4% per annum, despite the low fees of such platforms.  What could explain such a big discrepancy? 

It is human nature to allow emotions such as fear, greed, and egotism to get in the way.  Overconfidence is one of the biggest killers of portfolios, as we will discuss in detail throughout.  Barber and Odean in a 2000 paper show that “after accounting for trading costs, individual investors underperform relevant benchmarks. Those who trade the most realize, by far, the worst performance. This is what the models of overconfident investors predict”  (http://faculty.haas.berkeley.edu/odean/papers/gender/BoysWillBeBoys.pdf)

Then with a different data set, Odean [1999] finds that “the securities individual investors buy subsequently underperform those they sell. When he controls for liquidity demands, tax-loss selling, rebalancing, and changes in risk aversion, investors’ timing of trades is even worse. This result suggests that not only are investors too willing to act on too little information, but they are too willing to act when they are wrong.

These studies demonstrate that investors trade too much and to their detriment” (http://faculty.haas.berkeley.edu/odean/papers/gender/BoysWillBeBoys.pdf)

It is human nature for people to think they are smarter than the average, and can stock pick.  Pick the winner - those individual stocks that will outperform.  Shows such as CNBC and Bloomberg also encourage investors to think they can time the markets.  Even people who aren’t especially egotistical assume they can pick winners in markets they know, like teachers may feel they can pick education stocks; doctors may think they can pick pharmaceutical stocks and so on. 

Consider something for a moment.  If you stock pick (individual stocks) rather than buying funds, you have an 20%+ chance of beating the market over a five year period. That goes down to about 2%+ over a 40 year + investment career.  There are many reasons for this.  Even small costs of buying and selling build up. 

Good short-term returns, moreover, increase egos, and complacency comes into play. One of the biggest reasons is that the information is in the public domain and transparent, so there is no such thing as a free lunch. Remember, all the information about companies is publicly available.  There are people whose job it is to look at this information and weight the pros and cons of all that information and decide whether to buy or sell the stock.

Let’s take technology stocks as an example.  It was true in the 1990s that those IT geeks who correctly predicted the future of the internet era could have made tonnes of money. Certainly, early investors in Facebook or Amazon did make bucket loads.

However, it would have been madness to put a significant percentage of your wealth in Amazon in 1995. A rational investor can only make decisions based on the information he or she has available at the time. 

Predicting the future is almost impossible and those who get it right once, probably won’t next time. There are so many unknown unknowns and know unknowns for all companies, and especially start-ups.

If Amazon’s CEO would have died 20 years ago, or there would have been a huge scandal or employees would have joined a competitor on mass, the company would never have succeeded.  Who knows, maybe Amazon almost went bust early on before they publicly revealed information which only becomes a legal requirement once it goes public. 

And more to the point, even though tech has on average done well over the last 20 years, most tech firms have gone bankrupt.  Buying the market and a broad basket of companies isn’t speculating.  It is just assuming that, like always, in the long-term, the biggest 100-200-300 companies in the US or elsewhere will be worth more money in 10-20-30 years than today. 

So regardless of whether in 2050 most of the S&P is financial services, law, consumer goods or even bitcoin mining companies (i doubt that though!), an investor who buys the market will profit. 

They just won’t profit as much as somebody who invests 100% of their wealth in the one coin, stock or currency that beats the market! One of the reasons the average DIY investors only makes on average 2%-4% per year when markets have gone up on average by 10.5% per year, is because they assume they are smarter than others due to `research`.

It is human nature to think you are smarter than the average, but the academic evidence is clear that enhanced knowledge won’t allow you to beat average market returns consistently.  You will almost certainly beat the market some years, but on average, you will lose long-term.

Beyond that, self-motivation is an issue even for people who are hard-working.  Most of the people reading this have probably gone to the gym, tried to lose weight and gain muscle. How many have successes?  How many of people reading this have remained constantly motivated day in day out, year in year out?

I certainly haven’t, I have been slightly overweight many times in my life despite coming from a medical family, and knowing some basics about nutrition! That is tough, but being a rational investor requires that kind of self-discipline. 

It isn’t just egotism and lack of self-motivation that causes us to trade more.  Panic and greed also play a part.  It is a natural human emotion to want to invest more when markets are going well, or sell when markets are down or at least to stop contributing.  Studies show that if you tell somebody that they have a 95% chance of making money, they are more likely to invest than if you tell them they have a 5% chance of losing money. 

The 1990s also didn’t help.  During the fantastic winning run for stocks, especially in the technology stocks on the NASDAQ, many people with little or no knowledge made a lot of money from stocks.  Anybody can make money in a bull market, and this gives people overconfidence. 

The human mind isn’t a rational one and an investor who wants to be logical is fighting against these urges to get better returns.

Key Points from Section 3:

There are numerous excellent online platforms available in the market 

DIY investing doesn’t work for 80% of people as fear, greed and egotism get in the way of good financial decisions. 

Part 4: Tips to Find a Good Financial Advisor or Wealth Manager

In the last section on DIY investing, I spoke about how most investors struggle, to manage their investments.  Having been in the industry for a long-time, I have seen so many individuals make poor decisions when deciding on their financial advisor. Here are some tips to avoid being in this situation:

-   What are the advisors fees and value added?  If an advisor can reduce your fees and       offer you some of the funds I suggest here, and do that for 1% per annum, you should be onto a winner.

-    Automatically, when dealing with a friend, it is human nature to trust people we know more, and if you have a friend, who can offer the previous mentioned value-added proposition, then go for it. If not, find another advisor, and go out eating and drinking with your friend, and leave the financial advice to somebody else!

-    Avoid focusing on purely `face-to-face` advise.  In the modern world, we have Skype, Line, WeChat and many other applications.  We don’t need to meet clients and advisors face-to-face. An international wealth manager of financial advisor will have clients all  around the world, just as I do. Moreover, firms with huge offices also have huge costs.  There is a lot of benefits of dealing with firms with one office, or web-based firms.  Lower costs mean more money in your pocket.

-    Despite the last bullet point, there are certain times when geography can matter.  A British advisor in Japan is more likely to be familiar with some of the specific issues British and European expats face in the Land of the Rising Sun, compared to a British advisor who has never left the country.

-    Regulation.  It is best the funds you are in are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK or the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the US or another regulator in the developed world.

-    Focusing too much on the formal qualifications of the advisor. Investor protections offered by the FCA and SEC matter. If your advisor has a Ph.D as well as professional financial qualifications, that doesn’t automatically mean your returns will be better.  Bernie Madoff was one of the smartest people on Wall Street, and investors shouldn’t forget that.

-    How liquid are the investments?  An advisor should be recommending liquid funds, as a general rule, and avoiding complex financial instruments such as structured notes.

-    If an advisor is `guaranteeing` returns, this is a red flag. Guarantees are only as good as the institution underwriting the guarantee and often come with terms and conditions.  Lehman Brothers made many guaranteed products.  As an example, many savings plans have a guarantee, but that means some of your costs are given back to you, and this guarantee is only paid if you pay every single month until maturity.  So on a ten-year savings plan that means paying in for the full 120 months.

-    Is there skin in the game?  If you pay a 1% fee, that is $5,000 a year on a $500,000 portfolio.  If your portfolio rises to $1M, the advisor will be paid $10,000.  That is a fantastic incentive to grow the portfolio and service the client.

-    How committed is the advisor to the industry?  A very young and inexperienced advisor may fail in the industry, while an aging advisor over 60 maybe planning retirement soon or bad health is more likely to strike.

-    An advisor should be a partner, acting as a check and balance on your decisions.  You should trust the advisor to tell you some hard truths if needed, and not just tell you what you want to hear.

-    Offers some non-contractual savings plans and general options.  As opposed to some inflexible 25-year investments which will mean you are hit with huge exit fees if you want to leave early, non contractual plans allow you to contribute as you wish.

-    They should truly be an independent advisor.  An advisor who works at AIA will recommend only AIA products.  The same applies to somebody working at Goldman Sachs or a retail bank.   A truly independent advisor can look at the whole market, and give you unbiased advice.  They are likely to give you unbiased advise if they are earning based on yearly account fees or upfront costs, meaning they don’t have any incentive to mislead you.

-    Don’t dismiss high initial fees, if it can be cheaper in the long term or even medium term.  Some advisers charge an hourly fee.  It can seem expensive, but it can be cheap.  If you have a $500,000, and an advisor charges you $5,000 to set you up for life with an account that is likely going to perform well given the academic data, that is likely cheaper than paying a commission on a product or 1% per annum.  I am not saying there isn’t substantial benefits to the 1% per annum charge.  Many inexperienced investors and those who struggle to keep to long-term aims, benefit from the ongoing financial advice and guidance that this model offers. For relatively experienced and confident investors, the upfront costs can sometimes make sense.

-    Somebody who will tactfully tell you some hard truths is somebody who is likely to be sincere.  As this book has made clear thus far, there are deep physiological, cultural and social reasons why people have certain beliefs.  A good advisor should challenge those beliefs, politely.

There is no doubt a good advisor can offer some great value added to the client.  The Center for Inter-University Research and Analysis of Organizations (CIRANO) in Quebec conducted a study, which showed that “95% of respondents indicating that they can rely on their advisor to provide sound advice and 88% reported better returns as a result of the advice they received. Eighty-two percent attribute better savings and investment habits to their advisor, while 91% say they get value for the money they pay to their advisor” (https://www.wealthprofessional.ca/news/mutual-fund-investors-see-the-value-of-financial-advice-study-213860.aspx).

The study also found that “household that employed a financial advisor managed to accumulate significantly more wealth than those that did not. These benefits were also found to increase over time: invested assets of advised households were 1.9 times greater than that of unadvised households after four years, and the ratio increased to 3.9 times after 15 years”. 

Now Canada is a well-regulated market.  Financial advisors in some other markets, such as countries with lax regulation and lower GDP, are unlikely to have reported such fantastic results.  It is also unclear how these happy clients would have done going down the DIY approach.  In any case, using the points above in this book should help you choose an advisor or feel confident managing your investments.

The message of this book, however, is that sound financial planning runs contrary to some aspects of human nature.  If you want to become financially independent, you may well have to fight the demons inside. 

Part 4 Key Points:

1.  If you are going to hire a financial advisor, they should be good at keeping costs down and motivating you to keep on track, especially when markets are down.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A840

Part 5 - How do culture, friends, and family affect your investment gains?

Thus far, I have focused on which investments perform best, and some of the reasons why people tend to underperform financially. It is often the case that our friends, family and general culture around us also affect our financial health, and this is what this section will be about.

5.1 Culture

Everybody is influenced by the cultural backgrounds they have been bought up.  I honestly think that no other product or service is as culturally influenced as financial services.   Even alcohol consumption, perhaps, isn’t as influenced by the culture we have come from compared to financial services.

It gets to the heart of risk, reward and delayed gratification.   I am from the UK.  In the UK, an `Englishmen’s home is his castle` is a phrase often used, which indicates how obsessed British people can be about housing.  We talk about the `housing ladder`, implying the market always goes up or people want to climb the ladder regarding the size of their house. 

However, very few British people would buy what the Chinese would call a ` second-hand house` or what is often called in the West `buying off-plan`. Culturally speaking, people like to view a house, and then decide if they want to make an offer.  95% or more prefer this route.  British people living overseas are a bit more open-minded to buying off-plan.  Primarily this is because they see locals sometimes make a reasonable amount of money this way.  In the UK market, a sensible real estate agent would target foreign buyers from China and other Asian markets, due to the aforementioned cultural reasons.

The UK isn’t the only country which is obsessed with property.  China, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and numerous other countries have an obsession with property. 

In comparison, in Vietnam, Cambodia, India and numerous other countries, there is a fascination with physical gold as an investment. It has become a tradition to buy gold, or sometimes silver, in physical form.  This is left in the house and is sometimes uninsured. 

What could explain these very striking cultural differences? Anybody who has read Dale Carnegie’s classic How to Win Friends and Influence People know that humans are emotional, rather than rational being. What we are taught as children stays with most of us.

When it comes to how to deal with our finances, we have been subconsciously dealing with cultural influences from our parents, the TV and media and general society from a young age.  Many of us may have heard our parents arguing about money when we shouldn’t have been listening, or seen adverts on TV.  As children reach 16 or 18 and begin part-time work or further education, many parents may even try to influence their children forthrightly.  Therefore, some of these norms are deeply culturally ingrained.

That isn’t to say that norms can’t change.  In Japan in the 1980s, people bought real estate and stocks in Japan and globally.  The bubble burst.  Japan is the only major stock and real estate index which hasn’t hit its previous peak. In 1989, the Nikkei, when it reached an intra-day high of 38,957.44, was riding high. Fast forward 28 years, and it is at around 22,000. At one stage it was sitting at 7,000 in 2009.  Similar patterns have been seen in housing.  Like the stock market, there was a huge crash, and then a recovery, but prices haven’t fully recovered.

Imagine how it would have felt being a Japanese investor, or watching your friends and parents lose so much money.  The rational points one can make in this situation, such as somebody who kept buying the index as prices went down and reinvested dividends every year would now be sitting on a good profit, probably won’t impress a son or daughter of somebody who feels they `lost` their life savings.  Most people panic when prices go down, and become overly enthusiastic when prices go up.

These days, many Japanese people simply put their money in the bank. After decades of deflation and subsequently low inflation rates, many people feel safer getting 0%-1% interest from the bank than investing their money.  The culture has changed since the 1980s.  Likewise in China, the past obsessions with gold have changed.  These days, equities and housing are popular investments in big cities in Mainland China. 

The recent obsession with bitcoin and other cryptocurrency is another case in point.  These `investments` didn’t exist before 2011, and most of the new coins have come into being in the last few months and years.  People buying into these currencies have created their own culture, which hasn’t been influenced by their parents or culture.  Whether or not they influence future generations about investments remains to be seen. 

I think it is unlikely for two reasons. Firstly, I am not sure if these currencies will stay around, and they aren’t investments.  They are supposed to be currencies, but the fluctuations are so high, they aren’t even serving the currency function, which is supposed to be a stable source of value.  They are speculating pure and simple.  Second, it takes a long time for certain investments to become culturally normal.

Gold has been a store of value for some cultures for thousands of years. Property has also been an investment for a long time and goes back to our feelings of safety when we build a shelter for our kids. Stock markets have only become an investment vehicle for more than 100 years, and most people have only recently started to get involved directly.  Whilst it is true pensions have been linked to the markets for a long time, individual investors have only started investing on mass in the UK from the 1980s onwards. 

Before then, it was a rich person’s game.  In the US, the percentage of people who invest themselves is higher than in the UK.  Investing became mainstream in the US much earlier, as earlier as the 1920s, which can probably explain this.

One cultural norm that is deeply ingrained in many societies in the Far East is giving money to women to look after. This isn’t just a Far Eastern thing.   A large part of my family is of Scottish heritage.  When my grandma was young, men would get paid in cash, on a weekly or sometimes monthly basis.  Perhaps to stop them literally `drinking their money away`, many men would hand their salaries to their wives, and get pocket money in return.

This norm has diluted or completely ended for most Scottish people, as women have become more financially independent.  However, in China, Japan, and many societies, this is still normal.  Having spoken to numerous expats over the years, I can testify that many foreign-nationals also adhere to this norm. I have to say that unless your wife or partner is an investment professional or somebody who has read the academic evidence on investing, this isn’t the best idea.

With that being said, I would say this norm can be logical with overconfident men. Having read the data, I do believe women can make, on average, better investors than men.  The macho tendency of many men to assume they know better than others, and the evolutionary tendency for men to be risk takers, maybe contributes to the findings of some studies which shows that women outperform men in investing terms.

Brad Barber and Terrance Odean conducted a study, which shows that overconfident investors tend to trade more often, leading in the long-term, to lower gains.  Overconfident and egotism is a part of human nature and isn’t just constrained to people who invest money.

As they point out “studies of the calibration of subjective probabilities and that people tend to overestimate the precision of their knowledge [Alpert and Raiffa 1982; Fischhoff, Slovic, and Lichtenstein 1977].  Such overconfidence has been observed in many professional fields. Clinical psychologists [Oskamp 1965], physicians and nurses [Christensen-Szalanski and Bushyhead 1981; Baumann, Deber, and Thompson 1991], investment bankers [Holstein 1972], engineers [Kidd 1970], entrepreneurs [Cooper, Woo, and Dunkelberg 1988], lawyers [Wagenaar and Keren 1986], negotiators [Neale and Bazerman 1990], and managers [Russo and Schoemaker 1992] have all been observed to exhibit overconfidence in their judgments.

Even though both genders can be overconfident, they found men on average trade more than women, as they tend to be more confident about their investing knowledge.  Based on their 35,000 sample survey, women beat men by an average of 3% per year between 1991 and 1997. This is somewhat surprising, as this was a great period for the US stock market.  You would expect, therefore, people who were more adverse to risk to do worse, perhaps.

But the findings showed that men are more likely to go from one extreme to the other. Selling 100% of their stock positions to buy bonds if they believed the markets were overvalued, for example.  Women were more cautious about making changes, and therefore stayed invested. Probably not because they know more about investing than men, but out of caution. This is unsurprising, as this book has made clear, trading more often and speculating will lower gains.

I have also found from personal experience that male business people, and indeed business people in general, are overconfident they can replicate the same results in the future, that they have in the past.  So rather than selling their business or a portion of their business if the going is good, they often assume they can continue to compound the businesses growth.

Regardless of whether women or men make better investors on average, the norm about the wife managing the money isn’t based on logic for the most part.  It only becomes logical if the woman knows the academic literature better than the man, or the man exhibits signs of egotism towards decision maker.  For the most part, managing the money in this way is just a cultural norm.  Other cultural norms can also be destructive, both in terms of returns and spending habits.

Spending habits are the biggest reason for long-term wealth, not income, as I will cover later on.  Certain cultural norms, however, make it harder to save more.  As an example, in most culture, there are certain expectations about marriage and weddings.  In China and some other Asian countries, the man or the man’s family is often (but not always) expectation to buy a house and have a car.  In the UK and US, some people expect flash weddings.  These are cultural norms which may be correct or incorrect, as it is subjective.

However, investment returns are something more objective.  Objectively speaking, it doesn’t make sense to buy a property in most major cities in Asia or beyond, unless you take the risk to become a buy-to-let landlord.  Or to put it more bluntly, the markets and the facts don’t give a damn about your cultural background, in the same way as your body doesn’t give you a free pass if your culture encourages smoking and drinking.

Finally, there is another reason why I believe certain norms become cultural embedded; they are based on human nature.  It is perhaps human nature to trust a physical object (gold and property) more than a business and a liquid asset, regardless of the academic data. It is also human nature to struggle to differentiate between volatility and stability.  This is true of investing, in politics or life in general.

When the Soviet Union collapsed without a bullet being fired almost 30 years ago, most people were shocked.  How could a system, which seemed so strong and authoritarian, collapse like that?  The Soviet Union was a system which tried to stop any volatility.  It paid for that with its stability.  Nassim Taleb has written two excellent books on randomness; Fooled by Randomness and the Black Swan. 

He is a mathematician and philosopher.  He shows that the more volatile system is, the more likely it will be stable long-term.   India, on this reading, is more likely to be a stable democracy and country going forward compared to China, which tries to stop volatility.

Bringing this to the stock market, people often say `stock markets are unstable these days` or similar expressions.  What they should say is `stock markets are volatile these days`.  It is a huge difference.  The academic evidence, which we will come to later, is quite clear.  Time in the markets is more important than timing the markets. 

Investing for the long-term and carefully rebalancing a portfolio if there is a crash and reinvesting the 2%-4% dividends every year, is a long-term winning strategy.  It also goes contrary to human nature and long-held cultural views.  The average investor is much more likely to get fearful when markets are down and hopeful when they are up.

5.2  Friendships and peer pressure

In the modern world we live in a culture where people try to impress each other.  There is a basic reason for this.  98% of the world’s companies don’t want people to save and invest more and retire earlier.  The slogan for L’Oréal, which is ` you’re worth it`, encapsulates a lot about modern marketing culture. 

The idea that you only live once, and you deserve to treat yourself to make you happier, is one of the marketers favorite tools.  Marketing as a function become more popular after the 1950s when competition in the market place became more fierce.  The primary job of the marketer was to persuade the customer that they needed to buy things that they don’t need.

The evidence is clear.  Consumption beyond a certain level doesn’t make most people happier and doesn’t improve life quality.  If somebody is poor, consuming more will make them happier. It is common sense that if somebody is eating rice every day, adding more variety to the diet and some leisure activities, will dramatically increase that person’s standard of living.

One of the most staggering statistics I have seen is one on consumption.  Somebody earning $35,000 a year in America is more likely to buy designer goods than somebody earning above $100,000 a year.  So spending like the rich spend is more likely to make you rich than speaking what you think the rich spend.  Numerous magazines and websites promote this idea of spending habits of the rich which can distort peoples imagination  of the rich.  The truth is, to stay rich, people need good spending habits.

In Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs, safety comes up higher than pure material needs.  The average person is much more likely to feel happier if they are safe in the knowledge they have money set aside, as opposed to endless consumption.  The peer pressure to `keep up with the Jones’ is one reason why people overspend.

There is another reason why friendships can affect somebody’s financial health.  Related to the previous section, cultural speaking, in most countries we are taught to be suspicious of people we don’t know.  Cold calling, door-to-door sales and other tactics is culturally unacceptable in many countries.

Many experts advise people to only deal with people we know.  This, the logic follows, will reduce scams and increase returns. Many people rely on introductions or referrals from friends, or go directly to a friend, for financial advice.  After years in the expat community, I have seen how Korean, Japanese and India expats in particular often have a ` go-to person` in Bangkok, Jakarta or other cities they live in,

What’s the problem with this approach?  People let their guard down too easily.  Now, before going any further, I do want to say that I think people can be too cynical in general.  Many experiments that have been done have shown that people are too cynical.  For example, if you lend money to a complete stranger, the chance of getting paid back is 80%-90%? Most people thought the odds were  50%.

So I am not encouraging people also to be more cynical about their friends’ recommendation for a financial adviser or wealth manager.  However, it is a fact that when people get a cold call or are approached by a stranger, they are unlikely to buy on the phone.

Instead, they will schedule a meeting, carefully go through the information and make a decision on the second or third meeting whether to buy or not. Of course, people being people will be influenced by how much they like the company and the person.  However, they are more likely to  look at the facts and figures; compared to if they are dealing with a friend or a recommendation from a friend.

If a friend tells you `hey I made 20% last year from this advisor`, many people will sign up without even looking at any small print.  But past returns are no guarantee for future returns, and we will get back to that issue later on in the book.  So don’t dismiss cold approaches, provided what is being offered is value added, after you carefully consider the evidence.

5.3  Costs/spending habits.  The pitfalls of modern culture

It is a numbers game, my gym instructor told me.  70%-80% of your gains will be related to diet, and about 20% will be related to exercise.  `You can’t outrun a bad diet Adam`, he told me.  The same is true for wealth. It seems obvious to say, but you can’t get wealthy if you spend more than what is coming in.  Mike Tyson made $500M and got into financial trouble.  Countless sports and entertainment celebrities are in a similar position.

What is less spoken about is that spending habits are the most important indicator of wealth, even more than how much you earn. Many people assume the rich earn a lot or have wealthy parents and partners.  Sure it can help. If you are earning $100M+ a year like  Beyoncé or Warren Buffett, even if you have relatively bad spending habits, you can still stay rich.  If the money ever dries up long-term due to a scandal or any other issue, provided they have a reasonable amount of self-control, it is easier for them to stay wealthy compared to a normal earner.

An incredible number of people don’t have self-control.  Coming down a notch or two from $100M a year earners, I have seen in the expat market how it is the norm for high earners to live hand to mouth.

I have several clients earning $15,000-$20,000 a month with benefits such as free housing, who have little wealth.  In comparison, I have two clients who have only earned about $50,000 a year but have a net wealth of around $2M.  What could explain this? Simply spending habits. Spending habits compound over the years.  On average markets in the US have produced 10%-10.5% before inflation if dividends are reinvested, and about 6.5% after inflation.  That doesn’t sound like alike, but over 20-30 years, that is huge.

Consider a startling statistic.  Let’s compare two people who are investing $500 a month and they both get an unexpected lump sum of $100,000 due to inheritance.  They are both in the same investments for the sake of simplicity.  Person one invests only $500 per month but spends the 100K, whilst person 2 invests the 100K and the $500 monthly.  In 30 years, person 1 would have around $588,000 in today’s money.  Person two would have $1,350,000 in today’s money…..a difference of $750,000 in real terms by delaying consumption and well over $1M if you don’t factor in inflation!

This example shows the true costs of consumption.  Spending that $100,000 on consumption as opposed to investing, has indirectly cost him or her at least $750,000 in real returns.  At least 7.5x more than they think they spent.  If somebody asked you to spend $30 on a pint of beer in a normal bar or $100,000 on a normal car, you would say no.  Indirectly that is the price many of us spend on consumption.

In the Millionaire Next Door, Thomas Stanley points out that most millionaire couples are likely to buy their clothes at Dollard’s, J.C. Penney and TJ Maxx rather than Armani.  The average taxable income of America’s millionaires, according to Stanley, is $131,000.  Only 8% have income above $500,000 and only 5% above $1 million.  Studies that have been done suggest that 90% of millionaires living in homes under $300,000 are satisfied with life. 

Jon Robbin, a mathematician from Harvard, estimates that about half of America’s millionaires don’t live in fancy districts.  Sure, it is hard to measure happiness, and some people aren’t honest when being interviewed and asked such a question.  The data, however, indicates that consumption and happiness aren’t linked, above a certain threshold.

The point is Hollywood, and the media, in general, have created this image of rich people which isn’t usually accurate.  Many impressionable people try to act like the rich by consuming, when living below their means would be truly emulating the rich, at least the rich who remain wealthy in a sustainable fashion, year in year out.

Another myth that the mass media puts out is one of inherited wealth.  As global inequality has soared around the world, it is true to say inherited fortunes have become more normal, although, in class societies such as the UK, few of the super rich are now from `old money` compared to the 1990s.

In 1989, in the first UK Rich List done by the Sunday Times, The Queen was the richest person in the country, and many other members of the British Royal Family were below her.  Fast forward to 2018, and 80% of those on the list are self-made.  It is true to say that these new wealthy will one day pass on their fortunes to their kids, but this means that the children of the new wealthy will also need to have good spending habits. 

In the US too, most of the wealthy have not come from wealthy families.  They haven’t won the lottery or played for a football team.  The majority of them haven’t anyway.  The lions share, 80%+ of the millionaires, have accumulated their wealth in one generation. Slowly.  That is boring, and won’t win any Hollywood Oscars if it was told in a movie, or won’t make any sensationalist headlines, but it’s the truth. 

That isn’t to say wealth isn’t concentrated.  Many studies show that the medium household wealth in the US, as an example, is as low as $15,000, despite a GDP per capita of $50,000+ per year.  Some studies even show that 50% of Americans don’t have $400 to spare if there is an emergency.  That is more a reflection of culture though, and living hand to mouth rather than saving.

The key point is that wealth isn’t the same as income.  If you have $500,000 a year in income and spend $500,001 on first-class plane tickets and other luxuries, you aren’t getting any wealthier or richer.  In fact, you are slightly in debt. If you spend $505,000 consistently on such a wage, you will eventually become bankrupt. 

I remember during my time in Jakarta meeting a man called David.  He had worked in Hong Kong and Jakarta and earned close to $200,000 consistently for 20 years.  On a full expat package, he had many benefits such as housing allowances.  He could have become a multi-millionaire. Instead, he lost his job as an MD of a major US corporation, ironically a corporation which is within the financial industry, and often teaches people about money and investments.

I had drinks around his house one day.  He was in his early 50s at the time.  He told me about the insecurity he felt at being close to penniless at such an age, in a part of the world where age-discrimination still exists openly.  Why would another company offer him a good package when they could employ a 35-year-old experienced MBA, he thought.  He was telling me this within his luxury $3000+ per month central Jakarta house.  Sometimes people, who seem to have it good, have more financial worries than you do, due to spending habits. 

From meeting countless wealthy people and high-income broke people, I can say that the biggest indicators of (sustained) wealth are spending habits, planning, self-discipline, and persistence.  It should come as no surprise that people who are good at saving and investing from a young age, are also the types of people who don’t give up in their business when things start to go wrong.  Luck, including inheritance, and even higher qualifications aren’t as big a factor in wealth. 

The Canadian clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson has become quite famous in the last six months after an infamous interview of him, and Channel 4’s Cathy Newman received millions of views on YouTube. He and many psychologists have found that being conscientious is the biggest indicator of life success. 

I do feel this goes against a lot of cultural norms.  In the UK, like elsewhere, a lot of people use expressions like `it’s another world` when they hear about great wealth.  It implies that great wealth is something for other people.  That is a legacy of the UK’s class system, where a lot of wealth has been inherited historically, compared to the US and developing countries, which haven’t always had the same class system.

However, if you grow up believing you will never be wealthy or comfortable enough to retire at 55 or younger, you probably won’t. It gives you an extra excuse to procrastinate and not do the correct thing, on top of basic human nature, which often allows people to act contrary to their interests. 

Stanley points out that even in America, where most people believe in the American Dream of prosperity, too many people believe that a lot of America’s wealth is held by landowners, and not that much has changed since the American Revolution.  In fact, the figures indicate that country of origin, or your parent’s country of origin don’t make that much of a difference. 

Many people know about the immigrant story of Steve Jobs, who was adopted in the US and had a Syrian father.  That is just one story, but if we look at the statistics more closely in the US, only about 7.71% of all households in the English ancestry category have $1 million or more, ranking them fourth. According to Stanley research, the Russian ancestry ranks first in the US, with Scottish second, and Hungarian third.

The Scottish group is interesting.  Scottish people were also early comers to America, but they didn’t have the same advantages as English migrants.  Without getting into too many stereotypes, Stanley’s research indicates that thrifty Scottish attitudes to money is the biggest indicator of their success in terms of accumulating wealth.  This is backed up by the fact that more than 60% of millionaires in Americans from Scottish ancestry had incomes of less than $100,000 per year.  According to his statistics, the average Scottish ancestry American millionaire making $100,000 a year will consume what an average American on $85,000 would do.  Year in year out, this makes a difference to wealth. 

With that being said, if somebody wants to talk themselves into believing they are at a huge disadvantage due to their generation, or their ethnicity, it will make a huge difference.  If you believe that, you are more likely to give up and not be hard-working, persistent and have self-discipline if you believe there is a conspiracy. 

Nobody is naive and thinks that being a woman or from certain minorities isn’t a disadvantage, but the figures show it isn’t one of the major indicators of wealth.

The last point is especially important because as previously mentioned, wealth isn’t depended on income as much as spending habits and time in the markets leading to compounded rates of return. The market doesn’t care about the ethnicity or gender of the investor.  We all get the same returns.  So even where there is discrimination (and there is open discrimination in some countries in the Middle and the Far East and elsewhere), this affects income more than wealth. 

5.4.  How can you spend less?

The last section spoke about the fact many people overspend.  What are some of the tips people can use to spend less?  Before going into the tips, it is important people have a change of mindset about finance.  If you achieve this mindset change, it will give you the motivation to implement some of these changes.

Modern society, companies, and marketers encourage you to think about what you can buy for your money, rather than what you can earn from money. This means the opportunity costs of consumption are huge.

Consider something now.  If you buy a car you don’t need for $20,000 tomorrow, that car will cost you a lot more than $20,000.  Due to the 4% rule which we will discuss later, that $20,000 could give you a safe income of $800 a year forever.  So over a period of 20 years, that car would be costing you $36,000 or more. If you don’t need to withdraw the money and so are accumulating wealth, and markets perform at an average rate of return, it will be even more expensive still.

If you now buy a luxury $100,000 car, you are saying goodbye to the potential to turn that investment into something much bigger, or an income of $4,000 in inflation-adjusted terms, for the rest of your life.  Buying that $100,000 car may be indirectly costing you $1M+!

Somebody who invested $12,000 in the markets in 1975 would have had close to $1.1M in 2015, while somebody who invested $135 a month would have had over $1M in 2015.  Since 2015, markets have gained further. 

That isn’t to say that you should never spend money, but you should be aware that there is no such thing as a free lunch, and companies everywhere have a financial incentive to convince you that in the words of L’Oreal ‘you’ve worth it,’, and your happiness will increase from pointless consumerism.

Any reliable data on consumption shows that simply giving $1 to a beggar or a charity is far more likely to make you happier, than spending $1000 on consumer products, as giving to our family or complete strangers makes us feel important. 

Anyway, some of the following tips are obvious, and some aren’t, but taken together will make a difference to your financial health:

1). Linked to the opening of this section, you have got to believe that building wealth and financially independent is more important than having high social status.  In modern shallow society, it is true to suggest that over-consumption leads to high status.  This is especially true in the `new rich` expat destinations in Russia, China and elsewhere, but can also be true in London, California and everywhere up to a point.  If you don’t want to prioritize saving money and becoming wealthier, a lot of the tips below won’t be relevant, as it is unlikely you want it enough.

The majority of people regret trying to impress people they don’t care about.  In the Top 5 Regrets of the Dying, Bronnie Ware talks about what old people in nursing homes regret the most.  Not caring enough about people close to you, and caring too much about the opinions of strangers, comes high on the list.  Nobody regrets not caring about the opinions of complete strangers on their deathbed, or not overspending on things that we don’t need.

2). Bulks buy when you see an offer.  We all need toilet paper, tooth paste, and other essentials.  If you see a genuinely good offer online, bulks buy.  You could instantly save yourself $100 a year or more per bulk buy.  That could be worth savings of $1,000 a year or more.  This money can be used to invest and compound.  Indirectly, that is $100,000 or more over a lifetime, once the compounding comes into play.

3). Don’t spend a high percentage of your income on rent.

4). Luxuries should be luxuries.  No matter how much money you are making, staying in a good 4-star hotel won’t be much worse than a 5-star hotel.

5). For self-employed business people, the biggest reason for failure or at best small profits is too many `infrastructure` costs.  Most customers these days don’t care about big flash offices.  Find a serviced office, share or get a smaller office. 

6). Don’t spend unnecessary money on deposits and other housing costs.  Having lived in Japan for a few years, I saw so many expats spend over the odds for deposits and initial costs of renting a house.

7). Make a budget and count every penny.  Sounds boring, like counting every calorie is boring if you want to lose weight.  But it is effective.

8). Write down your budget on paper and how much you want to invest and save every month.  If you write down your goals, as opposed to typing it down, you are more likely to feel obligated to stick to it.  Humans are indeed irrational beings!

9). The internet has some great sites now, such as https://tokyocheapo.com and soon http://shanghaicheapo.com.  All major cities, including New York and London, have similar websites.

10). Give up alcohol. I know this one is tough.  I drank from age 16 until I gave up early this year.  But what I can say is that it makes you more productive, less likely to make stupid financial decisions and more likely to have money to save.

11). Treat yourself if you have the means, but find cheaper ways to treat yourself.  The internet is full of resources these days. Take business class flights and holidays.  On the British Airways official website, there are plenty of deals for European Holidays including business class for 200-500 return including hotel, and `Club World` for 500-2000 return.  That is just one example.  But if you book ahead, you can get great deals.  Why pay 5,000 for a business class holiday if you can pay much less?

12). Pay off credit cards every month.Therefore you won’t pay interest. If you have self-control issues and a history of getting into debt, don’t use cards at all.  In fact be very suspicious of debt in general.  Would cars or education cost as much as they do if everybody had to save to buy them? Of course not.  Except for student loans and (sometimes) small mortgages, debt doesn’t usually make financial sense.  

With mortgages and housing, seek the least housing for your needs, not the most housing.  The more expensive and indulgent your house is the higher the bills, insurance, and other costs.  Remember also; you are a slave to your mortgage for 20-25 years. So regardless of whether it ends up being better than renting, it isn’t conducive to financial independence. 

In Mark Cuban’s book `How to win at the Sport of Business`, he makes clear that debt is the biggest dream crusher.  A mortgage sometimes will stop you moving for that dream job, or stop you moving for a pay rise.  It will make opening a business more difficult, as well as making your financial planning situation more problematic.

13). Use cash.  Many studies that have been conducted have shown that giving a physical note or coin is more painful than paying by card or phone.  I often visit China.  Most people now pay on WeChat or Alipay, which are both phone applications. 

Many Chinese now don’t carry a wallet.  I haven’t joined this craze, even though I also find coins annoying and heavy.  This is because I know I would spend more.  Even if it is 2%-3% more, compounded, that is quite a lot.  It is also less money to compound through investing.

Also, cash is a great negotiation tactic.  If you only have $20 on you, and you are tempted by the gym’s latest offer, they are more likely to give you the $25 membership for $20, if they know you don’t have cash in your pocket.

14). Set up a direct debit into your investment account if that is possible.  If you are paid on the 1st of every month, make the direct debit on the 2nd.  That will force discipline. 

15). Don’t get divorced.  This is a fairly obvious one, but the vast majority of people who are wealthy only got married once.

16). Try to create adult children that are financially independent as quickly as possible. This is one of the commonalities of wealthy people that have been noted in various surveys. 

17). Make the right choice when it comes to partners and dating partners.  This isn’t just related to divorce.  It also relates to budgets. Even though earlier, I criticized men handing their money to wives, it is true according to many studies (including Stanley’s which was mentioned earlier) than on average men have worse spending habits in a marriage than a woman.

That doesn’t mean women should run investments, but when it comes to shopping and spending habits in general, women on average are better budgeters in a marriage than men.

However, in the Far East and elsewhere, I have seen countless men lose their shirt when it comes to marrying the wrong partners.  Women who are motivated by money or nationality, who take them for a ride financially. 

According to Stanley’s research, millionaire men are likely to answer yes to the following three questions:

Were your parents very frugal? 

Are you frugal? 
Is your spouse more frugal than you? 

The power of habits probably explains point 1, and getting into good habits at a young age can be key. 

18). Have clearly defined weekly, monthly and yearly goals and an overall goal.  If you aim to retire at 40, break that down. How much money do you have today, how much will you need to have at 40 to reach your goals, and how much do you then need to save every day, week and month to reach that goal?

19).   Pay down credit card debts first, before other debts, as they are the highest.  Many credit cards and debit cards charge interest rates of 15%-20% if you go into the red. 

20). Be smart with how much money you spend on education and courses. Going to university and getting a bachelor’s degree is generally a smart decision.  In fact, many options won’t be available for people without it.  Emigrating, even if you have a lot of experience, gets harder if you don’t have a degree.

When I first went to visit China in 2007, it wasn’t unusual for foreigners living to not have degrees. Even some senior members of staff, for example, engineers who left school at age 16 and worked their way up the chain and were sent overseas, didn’t always have degrees.

Enforcement was lax.  These days, things have changed in China and many other countries.  You often need a degree, alongside two years working experience and a criminal records check, to even get a job.  Singapore is another example and countless other countries.

The situation is a bit different in the UK, US, and mainland Europe.  In Mainland Europe, higher education is free or cheap.  In the UK, it is now expensive, comparatively.  Students pay around £9,000 per year on tuition and more on living costs.  However, they only pay the loans once they are making above £25,000 a year, at a rate of 9% for every penny above that amount.

Based on such calculations, somebody earning £26,000 will pay £90 (1% of £1,000), while somebody earning £35,000 will pay 9% of £10,000 (£900). Therefore, it isn’t calculated in the same way as other debts.  In fact, it is more like a progressive tax.  Interest rates are also much lower than credit cards, and most students will never completely pay back the loans. 

It makes no sense, therefore, for people to repay their student loans earlier in the UK, voluntarily.  In the same way as people are by nature afraid of volatility, people also struggle with the word `debt`.  If the UK system were called a graduate tax, or even better, a progressive graduate tax, students would not be worried by the system.

Some students from poorer backgrounds in the UK say they can’t afford to go to university.  This is impossible, for the reasons given above, as they don’t pay back the costs until they are earning above the threshold.  This once again, though, shows the power of perception, when people are dealing with personal finance. 

Of course, students should still make sensible choices when deciding what subject to graduate in, or what university to attend, as this will affect future life chances.  The figures illustrate that people doing very specific subjects which are inclined to train them for a future job, such as medicine, density, and even languages earn more. 

In the UK and elsewhere, getting a good grade in any subject is enough to apply for most jobs.  Getting a 2:1 or 1 is required, and many banks, accounting, and legal companies hire people outside of the area of expertise as they train people up. Bigger companies anyway like to hire young people with potential for the future.  Smaller firms, who don’t have the budget to mentor people, often have different needs.

Getting a 1 in Art of Philosophy from Oxford, London School of Economics or Cambridge is often worth more to many employers than a 2:1 from a weaker university.  Statistically, geography and history students are more likely to pass their professional exams with the Big 4 accounting firms and make partner, than people who studied finance and accounting at university. 

However, the figures above do illustrate one thing; those who fail to plan, are more likely to fail.  Somebody with a very specific goal of becoming a teacher, doctor, accountant or any occupation, is more likely to earn an above average wage in the labor market. 

The picture is a bit different for most graduate education and online courses.  If you take a career break to do a masters or Ph.D., you are losing income and the chance to invest and compound your returns.  Unless there is a very obvious payoff, or your employer is paying, the opportunity costs are likely to undermine the higher wages you may get.

Let’s look at a simple example of a person who is earning $50,000 a year.  They have $100,000 in their investment account and are doing a masters. They study on a two-year course.  The course costs $25,000 per year if living costs are factored in.  After graduating, the student doesn’t get a job for two months, and then finally gets a better paying job at $55,000.  After tax, this may represent a $3,000 a year pay rise.

This person is directly paying $50,000 for the degree, including living costs.  They also lost $100,000 from giving up work for two  years, and close to $8,500 for the two months without work.  They also lost out on 14 months of investment gains, as they couldn’t invest more as a student.  In total, the person is spending $175,000+ directly and indirectly, in terms of opportunity costs. 

For that, they are getting back $3,000 a year, assuming the degree doesn’t lead to higher wages after ten years.  The sums don’t work out, even if they invest half of this $3,000 in the markets every year.

There are a lot of free resources online now for older students.  I am not saying being a student again well into adulthood is always a bad investment, and people do have non-financial reasons to study, especially if they hate their job and want to retrain. 

Some people are even willing to take a pay cut to retrain, especially ex-lawyers and bankers, who tend to get fed up with the rat race.  But purely on a financial basis, post-graduate degrees don’t always make sense in the way that undergraduate and professional qualification do. 

5:5 Fear of Missing out - Bitcoin

Some things are cross-cultural including fear of missing out, after your friends and family start investing in something.  The current obsession with bitcoin and similar coins is the latest in a long line of `fear of missing out trades`. In his book Extraordinary Popular Delusions and The Madness of Crowds, Charles Mackay speaks about our natural human nature to be taken in by stories and to believe we are smarter than others.

Let’s say now that bitcoin does change the world in the way the internet changed the world in the 1990s.  That still doesn’t change one obvious point.  In the 1990s, most internet companies weren’t earning any revenue, only a small percentage was.  Without earnings, those companies were worthless. 

So even if cryptocurrencies are the future, they don’t make business earnings.  Again, the laws of gravity will eventually prevail.

The same applies to other businesses.  One day there will probably be a company that invents a new drug for cancer or other diseases or invents a new faster way to transport people compared to the plane.  The stock may rise by an incredible amount, maybe even for 5-10 years.  However, unless the company makes money from the new invention, the stock will crash. 

Even if sales increase exponentially but costs don’t, the stock will crash.  This basic law of gravity will eventually catch up to most of these coins. 

That isn’t to mention that all currencies, including new digital ones like bitcoin, aren’t supposed to be an investment.  They are supposed to be a currency.  Investing in currencies and speculating on them makes no sense.

Consider FX trading as an example.  If you speculate that the USD will fall against the UK Pound Sterling, you will either make money if it does or lose money if it doesn’t.  One will rise and fall against the other, but both won’t rise at the same time.  So the asset class in general (currencies) won’t rise.  Markets, in comparison, rise as an asset class.

Using internet companies as an example, the smart money was also on Apple going bankrupt in the 1990s. Only Steve Jobs returning and new products such as the iPod and iPhone ensured that Apple would become the most profitable company in the world. In comparison, nobody could have forecast that General Motors, which was once so powerful that the US government considered breaking it up, would need a US government bailout after the Financial Crisis of 2008.

So even if some digital currencies gain in value, it is almost impossible to predict which ones will succeed and which will fail.

Part 5 Key Points:

Cultural norms and friendship groups can install into all of us negative habits. 

Spending habits are much more important than how much you earn.  It will determine your level of financial independence in the future. 

3.   Investing in bitcoin isn’t a good idea!

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A993

6.  Taxes and Pension Transfers

Taxes are a complicated area and one which few people have expertise in.  I mentioned previously that maybe only 10%-15% of people have the self-control to invest themselves and gain returns similar to those seen in markets.  When it comes to tax, the figures are far lower, as it is a technical area.

This is especially the case for expats or immigrants living outside of their country of origin.  For British, Irish, Dutch and Belgium citizens there are also some considerations about whether or not you should transfer your pension overseas. 

6.1. Taxes for people living in the UK.

Tax efficient investments are a big part of sound finical planning. Nobody should want to dodge tax, but nobody wants a huge unexpected tax bill to hurt their retirement.  Fortunately, governments around the world have tried to make peoples lives easier.  The UK is a prime example.  ISAS allow UK residents to invest £20,000 a year into a tax-free vehicle. That is more than £1,600 a month.  People should take advantage of this, and open up a stocks and shares ISA, and buy some of the previous mentioned cheaper funds. 

For UK expats living overseas, ISAs aren’t an option, and therefore Capital Gains Tax could become an issue.  It makes sense for UK expats to stop contributing to their UK broker, for example, Hargreaves Lansdown, and start contributing to an overseas investment plan.

6.2. - QROPS and SIPPS

For UK expats, in addition to new contributions, you have to decide what to do with the existing pension you have accumulated in the UK.  There are two types of pensions in the UK.  Some people have defined benefit schemes, sometimes referred to as finally salary schemes. Increasingly, more and more people are on defined contribution schemes, which are linked to stock market performance. 

Defined Contribution:

For expats with defined contribution pensions, there are three options.  1). Leave your pension in the UK and buy an annuity.  2). Leave the pension in the UK but drawdown your pension.   3). Withdraw it into a QROPS, also known as Qualified Recognized Overseas Pension Schemes.

Regarding option one, an annuity is where you are given a fixed rate of return for your investment pot.  As an example, a provider may offer a pensioner a 10,000 Pounds per year pension for a £200,000 pension.  It isn’t as simple as that though, as annuities come in different forms. 

Some annuities have no guarantees; others have guaranteed payments for a certain period, while others are backed by RPI inflation and so on.  The chart below is based on a pension pot of 200,000, and is typical of current rates on the market:

Annuity starts at Age 55Annuity starts at Age 60Annuity starts at Age 65
Single Life with no Guarantees9,33810,22211,508
Single Live.  5 year guarantee.  RPI inflation backed. This means if you die in the next 5 years, payments will continue to the beneficiary after death4,5625,3666,552
Joint Life. No guarantees.  The annuity dies when the second person dies 8,7609,64410,714
Single Life, 5 year guarantee, 3% escalation.  The increase is capped at 3% not RPI inflation.6,1366,6687,808

As the chart above shows, there is no free lunch. The more `guarantees` you want, regarding protection against inflation and so on, the less the insurer will pay out in terms of fixed payments. Don’t forget as well that the above rates will usually be taxed, and taxed in the country you are living in. 

Regardless of whether you are retiring in Spain, France or Thailand, the local tax laws will generally apply.  As a generalization, annuities do not offer the best value in the market.  They are just simple, and many people like the simplicity of buying them.  However, many annuities can be expensive and perform badly over time as the graph below shows:

8% return on portfolioVanguard  Balance Index FundVariable annuity
Fees0.08% per year3%
Return after fees7.92%5%
Number of years to grow20 years20 years
End Value$321,467$185,730

Source, Asset Builder

For the second option, you could leave your pension in the UK and go for drawdown.  Of course, this is a more flexible option than an annuity as you can draw down as little or as much as you want.  You can also take it as a lump sum, but if you do this, only the first 25% will be tax-free. Like the first option, the tax rules will depend on your country of residence, not origin. 

In general, drawdown has historically been better value than the first option, even though since the `pension freedoms` announced by George Osbourne a few years ago, annuity rates have had to become more competitive now they aren’t a legal requirement. 

The third option is a QROPS.  They were introduced in 2006 to allow pensions to be moved overseas and they are recognized by the UK tax authorities, HMRC.  There are some of benefits to a QROPS.  One is that you may pay less tax, especially if there is a double taxation treaty to prevent you being taxed twice, but that depends on the country you are living in.

A QROPS will usually allow you a wider range of options compared to a SIPP, option two that we spoke about before.  The benefits of QROPS vs. SIPPS can be summarized below:

QROPSSIPPS
Lifetime allowance limit before you are taxedNo limit1.25M
Flexibility70% of pension must be used for incomeFull flexibility
DeathNo taxSubject to tax after age 75
Investment flexibilityAlmost 100% flexibilityFlexible but some restrictions such as certain types of property funds
TaxUsually taxed depending on country residing in, and sometimes taxed at sourceTaxed at normal marginal UK rates of taxes

Pensions are a highly complex subject, which is why advice is needed.  But in general, from the cases I have seen, the bigger the pension pot, the more benefits there are to QROPS.  This is because the lifetime allowance benefit doesn’t kick in for smaller pensions and the death benefit is huge for tax purposes if you have children, and want them to inherit that.  For smaller QROPS pots, the fees may kill some of the gains

Defined benefit schemes

For defined benefits (DB) schemes, like defined contribution pensions, three options exist if you live overseas.  Either leave it alone in the existing scheme, move it to a SIPPS or go for a QROPS. There is one huge difference compared to the defined contribution schemes, however.  Defined pension schemes are often more generous than defined contribution schemes.  This means that leaving the pension alone can often make sense.

With that being said it is still good to get some questions answered, such as:

-  What is the current funding situation with the pension?  Do any black holes exist?

-  How is it indexed according to inflation?

-  Can I take a lump sum on retirement?

-  Do my dependents get any benefits?

-  At what age do the benefits start? 

If you give up your guaranteed income, you are leaving your pension open to market risks.  So you have to think carefully before giving up a DB scheme, much more seriously than a defined contribution scheme which is already linked to markets. 

That doesn’t mean there aren’t any benefits to converting it to a SIPP or a QROPS.  The benefits of going into a QROPS from a DB scheme include:

1). More control in general.  You have more control over when you can get the benefits of the pension, whereas, in the DB scheme, there are often rules.  You can also have more control over the currency the pension is in, investment choice, and so on. 

2). Potential tax benefits. UK DB schemes are taxed at source, but in QROPS, it is sometimes possible to tax them gross or some tax deductions.

3). Death benefits.  In a DB scheme, once the person dies, there is limited benefit to the spouse, and then 0% benefit to the children or next dependent.  If it is put into QROPS, the money can stay there for as long as it needs to.

4). Avoiding the lifetime alliance of one million Pound Sterling. On larger pensions, there is a clear benefit to QROPS for this reason.

5). Taking advantage of high current valuations.  The cash equivalent transfer value is based upon certain actuarial assumptions, including the yield on fixed securities.  As interest rates rise, those values might well fall.

6). Is the scheme itself in trouble or the company?  Of course as Lehman Brothers and countless others have shown, companies can go bankrupt, and pension black holes are getting bigger across the UK. If this is the case, transferring may be a good option. 

As a general rule then, I would be more careful before transferring from a DB scheme, unless your pension pot is big enough that some of the tax advantages of a QROPS come into play.  If you have, as an example, a 2M pension and kids that you want to inherit the pension, the benefits of the QROPS could be worth some of the market risks. 

6:3 - How will Brexit affect some of these assumptions?

Some Brits living overseas are worried by how Brexit will affect their pension situation. As mentioned in the last section, the cash transfer value of pensions is determined by certain actuarial assumptions.  Since Brexit, annuity rates have increased by around 8%, after people rushed into government debt markets, lowering yields.

That means to pay out a fixed income the pot must be 8% greater than it was before Brexit.  Probably, transfer values will increase based on the above. However, the risk is that scheme actuaries will take into account scheme deficits when calculating transfer values. 

Moreover, once the UK leaves the EU, it is hard to see whether laws will change about the free movement of pension money.  It is also hard to know what will happen to the Pound Sterling.  Given all the uncertainty, it is understandable why many British people living overseas may want to reduce their uncertainty and have their pension in Euros if they are living in the Eurozone or US Dollars if living internationally.  It is very difficult to know if Brexit will be negative for pensions, but it brings uncertainty.

6:4 EURBS

For certain European countries, such as Ireland, Holland, and Belgium, the European Union has allowed for a `QROPS like` solutions for expats.  Similarly to QROPS and SIPPS, it is best to seek advice and as a generalization, the benefits of transferring the pension become worth it after the pension pot becomes big enough to justify the transfer.

6.5. Offshore bonds

For expats overseas, especially British expats, offshore bonds can be a key in tax efficient saving and investment.  Sometimes known as tax wrappers, they are domiciled in tax-friendly locations. Unless the money is bought into the UK, it is not subject to UK tax.  It is important that people understand the tax laws of the country they are residing in, before buying a bond. 

Different bond providers have contrasting charges, and this should be one of the factors that come into consideration when making your decision about which option to use.  As there isn’t usually any difference between the buy and sell price in a bond, they can be a cheap structure in which to hold an internationally mobile portfolio. 

For expats moving from country to country, it makes sense to have a portfolio which can be topped up wherever you go, as opposed to always needing to close your local accounts when you move.

As a generalization, since 2014 and the FATCA legalization from America, Americans are some of the few expats globally who are taxed on overseas income.  Many financial institutions overseas now refuse to take Americans, American passport holders, and US taxpayers, even if they hold dual passports.  For Americans, it can often make sense to keep contributing to your pension back home, unlike other expats, where that doesn’t make sense.

Part 6 Key Points:

For British, Irish, Belgium and Dutch nationals, there are often significant tax advantages of moving pensions overseas. 

However, final salary pensions should only be moved with caution. 
For Americans, it often makes sense to invest in the US, even when moving overseas. 

7.  Wealth Protection and Insurance

Insurance isn’t an investment, but it is wealth protection.  We all depend on our health to become wealthier.  Fortunately for those of you reading this from the UK, much of Europe, Singapore, Australia and some other places, health insurance is provided free at the point of use.

For expats living in some countries overseas, Americans living at home or some other nationalities which don’t provide free healthcare at the point of use, health insurance is imperative to protecting your wealth.  Certain procedures can cost $50,000 upwards, and even somebody who has been saving for years and is on track for a good retirement can get their plans wrecked by health bills.

Even if you are employed, and your insurance is linked to your employer, it can make sense to have your own coverage.  Most insurers overseas won’t take on people with pre-existing conditions, whereas if you get insured when young, they are legally obligated to keep insuring you in subsequent years. 

Regarding other insurances, income protection, life insurance and business insurance can make sense, depending on your situation.  If you plan to have kids or already have them, life insurance is a no-brainer.  Income protection too can be cheap, relative to the benefits.  As insurance is dead money, it doesn’t make sense to spend too much cash on this.  If you can spend 5% or less of your income on getting your health, life, business (if applicable) and income protected, then you are less likely to become poor if you have an emergency.

7.1 - How much health insurance do you need?

As insurance is dead money, you don’t want to be over-insured. It makes sense to get the most covered, for the least possible price.  Many procedures are cheaper than you might imagine, outside the US.  A medical checkup can often cost $50-$150 in most parts of the world.  Even routine surgery, like a hip replacement, isn’t expensive.

What are expensive is long treatments such as cancers and dementia. These procedures can cost $50,000 or above, sometimes $100,000 and above.  It makes sense to get all of these expensive procedures covered, for the lowest price, by an insurer that is regulated by a developed country.

The previous point is important.  Even a big insurer, such as AXA, is split up into different companies.  AXA HK or AXA Singapore is following local laws like AXA Thailand follow Thai laws.  In certain countries, the insurance laws are stricter.  That means that practices such as not automatically renewing your insurance if you get sick, aren’t always included. 

If you have some emergency funds, which everybody should have in addition to their investments, it makes sense to have a $1,000+ deductible/co-pay.  This way you can pay for all the basic costs out of pocket and get the basic coverage.  This will almost always include those life-threatening emergency procedures unless you already have pre-existing conditions, in which case you may need to consider your options carefully. Sometimes, in this situation, your only option is to buy a more expensive package or take the risk of not getting insured for those conditions.  This again illustrates the importance of getting insured when you are young before you get those kinds of conditions. 

7:2 - Other health insurance considerations

The British National Health Service is based on your residency.  Sure, if a British person is back in the UK for a holiday and gets sick, they can get emergency care.  Coming back to the UK for health treatment for cancer is considered medical tourism, and unless you lie and claim you were planning to return home, isn’t recommended.

Other developed countries with similar health systems to the UK have similar rules.  Your health insurance, therefore, should meet certain quality criteria. In poorer countries, such as Cambodia where I lived in 2014, there is a lack of quality medical facilities.  You should, as a result of this, get medical insurance that has evacuation to Bangkok or Singapore. For many expats in African countries, Myanmar, and some other low-income countries, the same considerations apply. 

7:3- How much life and income protection insurance do you need?

If you have kids or other dependents, or plan to have them, you should have term life insurance.  It is better to start off early when you are younger and therefore cheaper and don’t have pre-existing conditions.  As soon as you get pre-existing conditions, if they are serious such as previous cancers or heart problems or even depression, you may not get insured for income protection.

A good, and basic, rule is to assume that a lump sum from life insurance will yield the beneficiary 4% per year for the rest of their life.  In other words, $100,000 will yield $4,000 per year, and $1M will yield $40,000 and so on.  We will speak more about the 4% rule later.

This does depend on numerous assumptions, of course.  How conservative your loved ones are with money is one consideration, and how they invest the money after the death.

Before deciding on how much life insurance to get, also consider how much debt you have and savings.  Imagine you have person 1, who has a partner who needs $50,000 of yearly income for 25 years but has $500,000 in debts. 

Such a person should aim to get at least $750,000 of life cover, because 50,000×25-500,000 = $750,000.  If the person wants $50,000 a year `forever,` they will need more than $1.75M of coverage.  This is because 4% of $1.25M is $50,000 a year, but you also need to add $500,000 to cover the debt burden.

Now consider person 2 is in the same situation, but they have $50,000 of debt.  In which case, $800,000+ of life cover is more sensible, or more if they want to follow the 4% rule.  Of course, these are only rules of thumb. If somebody has a frail elderly parent who is 95, one doesn’t need 25 years of life insurance.  Also, if one has a partner who is likely to be able to generate their income, or can partially rely on income from the state that will also lower the amount of cover needed.

As you can ascertain by now, how much life cover you need is not simple.  That isn’t an excuse for putting it off, however. Be prepared if the worst happens.

Regarding income protection, in much of the developed world, income payments are paid to the disabled.  Disabled people often get higher living allowances than the unemployed, alongside medical insurance free at the point of use.

This section should tell you something important.  Living abroad in poorer countries isn’t automatically cheaper.  If you are sick, staying in the UK or Europe or another advanced country where you are entitled to free care, will be far cheaper. 

If you are already overseas, it makes sense to protect your income if disability strikes.  Like with life insurance and health coverage, it will be cheaper to insure yourself at a young age.  As soon as you get pre-existing conditions which are considered serious, many insurers won’t underwrite it.

7.4 - Recommended providers for health, life and income protection cover.

There are hundreds of providers out there, and a lot will depend on your country of residence, whether you have pre-existing conditions and some other factors.  The below represent what I feel are some of the best options for expats overseas:

Health insurance for expats

Some of the big international players offer the best coverage.  AXA, Alliance, Aetna International, Bupa, Cigna, Now Insurance and William Russell all offer good plans.  AXA International maybe offers the best value for money packages, while Bupa is excellent for quality, but often more expensive.

There are some super cheap plans on the market, included some that are targeted to `young expats` under the age of 30 or 35. The premiums are often super low, but they don’t include automatic renewal.  This is a risk.  If you get cancer or another pre-existing condition, the insurer doesn’t have to renew your insurance, and a new insurer won’t want to take you or will exclude those conditions.

Life Insurance for expats

The four best options would be Friends Provident International Protector, Zurich International Term Protection, Atlas Life and William Russell. The first two are probably the best, but they can no longer take expats from China, Japan , and many locations, whereas William Russell and Atlas Life can take expats from almost anywhere. 

Some life insurers, such as RL360, will also have life insurance options which cover your mortgage or the payments towards your kids if you are divorced. 

Income protection

With some of the plans above, you can add the optional benefits of critical illness and permanent and total disability.  William Russell and Atlas Life also have a separate income protection plan.   William Russell’s plans are not fixed though and can increase in price as you age.  For Australian and New Zealand passport holders, Asteron Life offers some excellent plans.

For self-employed individuals, it is often impossible to get covered for income protection by most providers.  In general, self-employed people should be doubly careful to diversify away from their core business area, as they also won’t get redundancy pay if something happens. 

7.5 - Some real-life case studies of when protection goes wrong

The insurance industry doesn’t have the best reputation in some countries, especially in the United States. I can understand why.  The industry lobbies the government, and as there isn’t healthcare free at the point of use, people get emotional about the issue of health insurance.

Personally, I think protection is one of the most neglected areas of financial planning.  In most well-regulated markets, moreover, provided you don’t lie on application forms or take your own life, it is a misconception that you won’t get your claim paid.  Putting it bluntly, you are either dead or alive.  There are no shades of gray.  So unless there has been suicide or dishonesty in the form, your loved ones will get the payout.

I have seen some horror stories from people who haven’t protected themselves.  This is especially the case in the expat market in South East Asia and beyond.  It is closer to the wild west than anything in the West.  Even in America, hospitals need to treat people who are in danger of dying.  You aren’t supposed to let people bleed to death. 

The uninsured should get treated, and then a payment plan is made if they can’t pay it in a lump sum.  One of the reasons why healthcare is so expensive in America is because there is a private system, but the government underwrites that private system with certain guarantees, but that is a story for another day.

The two worst stories I heard happened in Cambodia and Hong Kong.  In Cambodia in 2014, I was friendly with a man who, together with myself, was going to start a British Club in Phnom Penh.  A founder of the Bangkok Stock Exchange, with 50 years experience in Asia, due to his colonial background.

He told me about a wealthy lady he knew in Hong Kong. By wealthy I mean 100M+.  She got ill on a Friday evening.  The hospital refused to treat her until she paid.  Due to the timings, it wasn’t easy to get money to the hospital. It was before the days of credit cards, or she didn’t carry a credit card on her.  Her assistant couldn’t come up with the money until Monday morning at the earliest.  She died on the Sunday.

A much more shocking case happened, also in 2014.  I was on Facebook when I saw an expat page online.  It was about a British expat in Cambodia.  The post said more about him, his life in Cambodia and his job.  Then I looked at the picture again, and the face looked familiar.

I had met this man in a bar near where I was living, six months previously.  He was one of the few British people overseas I have met who said he missed home. Mind you he is Scottish.  As a person born in Scotland myself to a half Scottish family, I can say it isn’t a stereotype to say that Scottish and Irish people are more likely to have a stronger sense of national identity than English people. 

An American expat once commented to me that only English people say they are from Britain or the UK, whereas the other nations of the UK don’t refer to themselves as British.  It isn’t strictly 100% true, but there is an element of truth to it.  This particular Scottish man I met did seem a bit depressed at the bar that night.

He told me he six wanted to go home to Scotland, but couldn’t afford it yet.  He worked in the hospitality industry in Cambodia.  He wasn’t on a big expat package, but he earned $3,000 a month, so he could afford to get insured.  I thought about asking him about insurance, but I was tired and assumed he had it as part of the deal with his employer.

When I saw the Facebook post, I felt guilty for not asking him about his insurance situation.  Culturally speaking we are taught in the UK, and indeed in many countries in Europe, to not be too pushy.  Sales is considered a bad word by some people, maybe because of the sleazy techniques, many salespeople have used in the past.

So even though every business in the world depends on sales, and every private business person needs to learn how to sell their products and services, we are often taught not to push it it too much.  It can make sense, and let’s face it, even asking (never mind pushing) can get a negative response from some people.

However, this particular episode taught me some things.  It taught me not to assume.  I assumed he was insured by his employer.  It also taught me that the solution I was providing was helping lives.

My parents are in the medical industry.  Somebody in the wealth management and insurance industry is never going to be universally popular, unlike a teacher, nurse or a doctor.  Of course, it is a necessary evil for most people.  Most people from developed countries believe healthcare should be free at the point of use, and I agree with that idea in principle.

Regardless of your political views though, it doesn’t make sense to cut off your nose to save your face.  If you live in most European countries, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and a few other places, healthcare is free at the point of use for all citizens. If you emigrate to America, most countries in the Middle East, Far East and beyond, you don’t have the same system. 

Therefore, the choice is between insuring yourself and taking a big risk.  Overall, regardless of your wealth and your political views on healthcare, it is a no-brainer to get insured in countries which don’t provide healthcare free at the point of use. 

Part 7 Key Points:

If you are living overseas and don’t have access to healthcare free at the point of use, medical insurance is a must. 

Life insurance is important if you have kids, or plan to have them. 
Having a lot of money doesn’t mean you shouldn’t get insured.  There are many real horror stories out there, which I have seen with my own eyes. 
Using 5% of your income to protect yourself and your health, income, and life makes sense. Also protecting your company with business and contents cover, if you are self-employed.  

Self-employed people can’t get income protection insurance, and won’t get redundancy pay if something goes wrong.  Many good businesses go out of business.  The self-employed should, therefore, be extra careful about their financial planning and try to diversify away from their core business area.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A1269

8.  Retirement

Everybody wants to be financially independent. Even those of you who love your job.  Who would answer no to this question `if your health goes or you stop loving your job tomorrow, would you not want to have enough money to be comfortable`?  The following section will consider some of the considerations before you retire.

8:1 - How much do you need to save?

A safe retirement withdrawal rate is 4% of your portfolio.  We will discuss that later on in this section.  But before withdrawing money, you need to build up a portfolio.  How much do you need to save every month to keep to your targets?

Part of that depends on when you start saving and investing, keeping your charges down and being disciplined.  The good news is that almost everybody can improve their existing portfolio and follow the previous recommendations.  The bad news is that you can’t get back those lost years.  The sooner you start saving and investing, the better.

For some people reading this, saving into the social security of the country will be automatic. In the UK, anybody who works full-time, automatically pays National Insurance. A lifetime of contributions means such a person will be entitled to around £6500 per year, which is roughly 20%-25% of an average wage in the UK.

Realistically, somebody in retirement needs around 70%+ of their pre-retirement income. Retirees often have mortgages paid off, and children are no longer dependents, which is one of the reasons for the lower figure.  For somebody with just the State Pension in the UK, they need an additional income of around £12,500, to give them a total income of £19,000, which is roughly 70% of an average wage in the UK.  Clearly, for somebody who is used to a higher or lower income, these figures can be adjusted.

Given that the safe withdrawal rate is 4%, saving up £315,000 in a pension would be needed, to generate an income of £12,500 in retirement. £250,000 would be sufficient if the person doesn’t care about their children inheriting the money, and maintaining that inheritance in inflation-adjusted terms.  In other words, withdrawing 5% or more may last you, but it risks harming your children’s inheritance.

Having £250,000-£315,000 in a pension might sound like a lot, but if we break it down, it isn’t.  The key is starting early, or relatively early. 

Years SavedTotal savings assuming savings of £200 a month, getting 6% yearly returns after inflation Total savings assuming savings of £275 a month, getting 6% yearly returns after inflation Total savings assuming savings of £500 a month, getting 6% yearly returns after inflation Total savings assuming savings of £1000 a month, getting 6% yearly returns after inflation Total savings assuming savings of £2000 a month, getting 6% yearly returns after inflation 
5£13,964£19,201£34,912£69,824£139,648
10£32,652£44,897£81,632£163,264£326,528
15£57,661£79,284£144,154£288,308£576,616
20£91,129£125,302£227,822£455,645£911,291
25£135,961£186,884£339,790£679,580£1,359,161
30£195,851£269,295£489,628£979,256£1,958,512

As the figures above show, time in the markets is even more important than contributions due to compounding.  £200 per month for 30 years will lead to a bigger pot than £1,000 over ten years or £2,000 over five years.  Many younger people feel like it doesn’t make sense to start saving and investing if they can only invest a small amount each month.  That is one of the worst mistakes you can make alongside trying to time markets. The best thing to do is to start investing straight away, as soon as you can, and do it consistently year after year.

If we look at lump sums, the figures are also clear.  If you get a £100,000 or $100,000 inheritance at age 25 or have accumulated the money early, you will have over $1M or £1M at age 65 in inflation-adjusted terms, even if you never reinvest.  That is simply based on average historical returns. In comparison, a 50-year-old will only have about $250,000 or £250,000.

There are some considerations to make to the figures above.  For expats who don’t contribute to their home countries social security system, don’t factor in the government pension.  100% of your saving pot will need to come from private provision.  For those who want to retire early, moreover, remember that government pensions can’t be enchased until 66 in many countries now, and that will likely rise to 70 soon.

One group of workers who don’t need to save privately for retirement is government workers in many countries.  Government teachers, doctors, civil servants and other workers often get a good pension in retirement, usually equivalent to 70% or more of their final salary, once you factor in their work and old age pension.

However, there is something you have to bear in mind.  That is control.  By definition, you don’t have control of a government pension. Previously in the UK and other European countries, it wasn’t unusual for teachers to retire in their 50s.  Rules have changed. So although the benefits of government pensions are still excellent, the rules can always change.  Early retirement is now less of a certainty. 

For government workers who hate their job or want to have semi-retirement, therefore, investing into your private pension as opposed to government pension is the best option if you want to retire or semi-retire in your 40s or early to mid-50s.

As populations age across Western Europe, Canada, Australia, Japan and other advanced economies, it is likely governments will further `move the yardsticks` retrospectively on pensions.  As I write this, university lecturers in the UK have been on strike, angered by what they see as retrospective changes to their pensions. 

Many people who love their jobs believe they will never want to retire.  Job responsibilities change over time though, and ill health can strike anybody at any time.  Having the security to be able to retire or semi-retire as quickly as possible, is something everybody should aim for. 

The above figures also do not look at average inheritance rates.  Inheriting money should never be part of somebody’s savings plans unless you know you will receive the money in the near-term or your parents are already giving you money.  Due to longer life expectancy, it isn’t unusual anymore for parents to live to 90 or longer, with 100 becoming more common. 

As the costs of social care/nursing homes are often taken away from the value of the family home, it is important not to expect an automatic windfall from your family.  That doesn’t mean you shouldn’t try to minimize future social care costs as part of your financial planning, though. 

In the UK as an example, it is possible to sign over assets such as the family home.  Provided this is done 7-8 years before your parents go to a nursing home, this should minimize costs, although laws keep being changed on this issue.

8.2 - How to retire early 

A lot of people assume younger people will need to work until they drop.  It doesn’t need to be that way. There are essentially two ways you can retire early.  The first way is to start saving early. Somebody who invested $375 (on average) from age 21 until 55, would have more than $1M assuming a 9% rate of return.  Saving early, in an effective structure with reasonable fees, will increase your returns.

A second way is to emigrate to a lower cost country.  If you can’t retire in the UK, US or Canada at age 50, you may be able to retire overseas.  The 4% rule means it is safe to take out 4% of your retirement pot every year.  If you have a pot of $400,000, that means you can safely take out $16,000 a year, or $1333 per month.  You can often afford to live in South East Asia or some Eastern European countries for that.

I would add a caveat though.  The cost of living in some developing countries is higher than you think.  The local cost of living is meager, but just because the GDP per capita in Thailand is around $6,000 and $1,200 in Cambodia, that means you can live super cheap if you live like the average local.

In the real world, it will be difficult for somebody from a developed country to get used to that kind of lifestyle. A monthly income of $500 in Thailand, Cambodia or Vietnam pays for, at best, the basics. It leaves no room for enjoying life or paying for your medical care if you get sick. I would say $1,000 is the minimum, and $1,200 per person is probably a more realistic minimum for most people, with $1,500-$2,000 more comfortable. 

Finally, there is a third way to be able to retire early. It isn’t something one should rely on, and most people don’t like to think about it.  It is inheritance.  You don’t have to be rich to retire from an inheritance, especially if you are willing to emigrate. 

A $300,000 inheritance can give you an income of $12,000 a year for the rest of your life, $600,000 can give you an income of $24,000 and so on.  If you already have money before you get the inheritance, retirement is even easier. We will speak more about the 4% rule below.

Many people in the UK and elsewhere use  inheritance to buy a fancy house, or others things they don’t need, which is a pity, given the options which exist. 

8:3 -  The `how many pay cheques`  test and being a digital nomad

A good thought experiment is to imagine you lose your job next month, or get sick, and can’t work anymore on your job or business.  How long would you last before you faced financial ruin? What would be the practical ways for you to make ends meet?  What do you need to sell the equity in your house, or rely on friends and family?

Consider something for a moment.  Somebody earning $500,000, who has a huge mortgage, numerous costs and little savings and investments isn’t any closer to financial independence than the unemployed person who is just managing to make ends meet. 

In comparison, somebody with passive income can manage to lose his job.  This passive income could come from many sources.  If you are in a business where your clients are paying you passively, and you don’t need to do much work after the initial sale, and your team is doing the work for you, then you can semi-retire more quickly. 

This book will mainly speak about how to earn a passive income from investing, but I would say there is a lot of misleading information out there about being a digital nomad.  Because most people would love to live `digitally` or `nomadically`, there are a lot of people suggesting it is easy to be a digital nomad.

The truth is it isn’t easy to be a digital nomad quickly.  There are exceptions to this rule.  If you have just gotten a sizable retirement, you can do it quickly, with the model portfolios previously mentioned in this book.  If you have sizable equity in your home, you can do it within a few months of finding a buyer.

But if you don’t have any income or wealth right now, living such a lifestyle will take time and effort.  It will take years building up the saving habits and investment portfolio you need, and years to also build up passive income from doing trade online, teaching online or doing other forms of activity on the internet that generate income.

The good news is if being a digital nomad is your aim, it doesn’t need to take 40-50 years.  It can realistically take 5-10 years.  When I first came overseas, I met two interesting people. One was a man called Philip, who was an Englishman who lived in Shenzhen in 2007.

He was a mutual friend , and I spent one day with him in 2007, as he kindly offered our mutual friend and I a place to stay after our flights from Thailand. 

He was a creative man by nature and was in the process of transitioning from being a teacher to a graphic designer.  He was struggling, but earning around $300 in 2007 prices, which was enough for him to break even in China at that time.  Now prices have risen in China, and Philip gave up, coming back to the UK earlier than expected.

In 2007, it seemed very difficult to live and work from home/online.  It even seemed mysterious to me and many others.  Then I met another man at a Thai boxing event in 2009, who told me his recruitment company in the UK allowed him to emigrate to Thailand.  They would pay him the same wage, to work on Skype. The only inconvenience was the time difference; speaking to candidate and companies early in the morning Thai time.

It has become easier to work from home.  WIFI speeds have gotten faster and other practicalities of working online, such as the fact many clients are now comfortable dealing with companies with no office space, has improved.

When I came overseas, it was always my aim to be financially independent. It took me more than six years to achieve.  I would suggest it will take most people a similar number of years to achieve that goal.  It will simply take hard work, financial discipline and determination.

It is important to ask yourself, though, how safe the income is.  The great thing about passive income from investments is that, as this chapter will speak about later on, there are strategies that have had a 100% success rate, over a 100-150 year period, according to the academic evidence. 

In comparison, passive income from a business can be more unstable.  In the insurance industry, 70% of clients may stay with you year-to-year.  Regarding investments, the figure is generally higher, as people don’t like change by nature. In other industries, in comparison, the retention rate is often lower.  In online education, students may leave their teachers quickly, as an example. Always be conservative when asking yourself how much passive income you could have if your main income dries up.

8.4. - Where to retire to for a cheaper lifestyle

Expats can live in almost any country in the world, but for retirement certain retirement, come up again and again.  Often with cheap living costs, hot weather, good healthcare and an established expat community, some core favorites such as Spain and Thailand in the Far East don’t go away.  These days there are some up and coming locations that can’t be overlooked.  Below I look at some options for expats:

Thailand:

Thailand now has a huge retiree population.  Hot weather, good food, and great beaches make life here easy for many., Bangkok, Hua Hin, Chiang Mai, Chang Rai and Phuket are all popular expat destinations.

Medical facilities in Thailand are world-class, so much that Thailand is now a health tourism location. With world-class facilities offering heart bypasses from $10,000, you can see why.

Expats coming from the UK and Europe are better off still getting expat insurance though, and for the over 65s, this will cost at least $200-$300 a month, so is a substantial extra cost compared to being in the UK or Spain.  If you have pre-existing conditions, moreover, you may not get insured. 

To get a retirement visa, there are some financial requirements.  You need to have a bank account with THB 800,000 (about $25,000) and double that (close to $50,000) for a couple, or a monthly income of THB 65,000 (around $2,000 a month), or a combination of a bank account and income that exceeds THB 800,000.

After meeting this requirement, you must then obtain a one-year retirement visa. To get this you must be 50, have a Thai bank book and a letter from your bank in Thailand. Also, you will need to provide pictures, a passport and departure cards. 

You will also need to get an `extension of stay’ notice and a re-entry permit.  This will allow you to re-enter the country if you leave it.  Finally, you must report to immigration every 90 days to check in and verify the address you are living in.  If you have ever been deported from Thailand or had any criminal history, you may not get the visa.

For people under 50 who are financially  independent and retired, you will need to find another solution.  One is to enroll on a Thai language course or another education course.  Spend a limited amount of money, and get a student visa.  In 2017, a `digital nomad visa` was introduced. Called a Smart Visa, it is designed for business people. 

They have currently limited the applicants to startup business owners, investors, high-level executives, or other highly-skilled professionals.  Visa rules are always changing, but if you have a decent budget and you are under 50, you should be able to get a visa.  Spending 2-3 months a year in Thailand on a tourist visa if you live elsewhere in SE Asia, is very easy. 

One of the biggest mistakes I have seen in Thailand is underestimating costs.  Many Thais live off $1,000 a month or less, and you can too.  But this doesn’t include luxuries.  To travel a bit domestically and internationally, sometimes eat out, get insured and so on will cost you between $1,500-$2,500 depending on your tastes and expectations.  A luxury retirement with maids and a big house may cost at least $4,000-$5,000 a month. 

Indonesia 

I lived in Jakarta in 2013-2014.  Indonesia does attract expats as it is the biggest economy in South East Asia. Jakarta is an expat destination but not a retirement destination.  It has some of the worst traffic I have seen, prices are high (especially for alcohol) and it is a business city.

Bali and some other beach resorts, in comparison, are laid back and cheaper.  You can live in Bali in a villa and enjoy a luxury lifestyle of spas and massages, all for $2000.  A more modest lifestyle can be had for $1,000-$1,500.

What did surprise me about Indonesia was how strict immigration could be.  I found Indonesians some of the friendliest people I have met, but immigration at the airport was an exception.  It was curious for me, as for most foreigners from high-income countries, why would they go to Indonesia on a tourist visa to take money from the non-existence Indonesian welfare system? 

Based on that experience, it shouldn’t come as a surprise that there are numerous requirements to retire in Indonesia.  In Indonesia, the age in which you can get a retirement visa is 55, five years older than Thailand.  The other requirements include:

​•​Possess a passport or travel documents with more than 18 months remaining validity

​•​Copy of all passport pages

​•​A copy of your resume

​•​A copy of your marriage certificate, if you are married

​•​Proof of $18,000 per year of income.  This will come from statements from your bank or investment funds.  Married retired couples must both prove an individual income of $1500/month and apply separately.

​•​Proof of medical/health Insurance, life insurance, and third-party personal liability insurance in a country of origin or Indonesia

​•​Statement of living accommodation in Indonesia. The minimum cost of US$35,000 if purchased house/apartment or, a minimum rental cost of US$500/month in Jakarta, Bandung, and Bali; US$300/month for other cities in Java Island, Batam, and Medan, and other cities a minimum US$ 200/month.

​•​Statement to declare intent to employ an Indonesian maid and driver while living in Indonesia

​•​Payment of Immigration Fee based on effective regulations

​•​You must sign a lease for housing with a minimum one year period. Alternately you can supply proof that you own a house under an Indonesian spouse's name.

Cambodia

Cambodia is an off-the-beaten-track location but is up and coming.  People are friendly, it is cheap, growing fast and has an easy visa system.  Retirees can come to the airport and get a business visa on arrival, and then renew for up to 2 years at a time.  Kep and Kampot, moreover, are more relaxed than Phnom Penh or Siem Reap.

Having lived in 5 countries, visited 35 and visited more than 200 cities, I haven’t seen a place as good value as Phnom Penh for some things.  Not cheap, but good value.  Basic goods like water are more expensive than China or Thailand, but you can go to an excellent French or other international restaurants for lunch for $10. And that is for three courses!  A traditional Khmer massage can cost you $6-$7 including a tip. 

Sihanoukville has a sleazy reputation, but like Pattaya, has been trying to change its image.  Some of the beaches are beautiful.  It doesn’t have the same amenities as Phnom Penh or Siem Reap, but it does offer a more relaxed lifestyle. 

Malaysia

One of the big positives about Malaysia is that they do have a specific retiree scheme.  Started in 1997, it has become popular in particular amongst British retirees, which is unsurprising, given that Malaysia is a former UK colony.  That fact means that over 90% of Malaysians speak fluent English.  Coupled with the golf courses, natural scenery, and excellent climate, this puts Malaysia high on an expat retirees list. 

Under the My Malaysia Second Home Program, expats pay a one-off fee of $3,000.  The program then helps expats get a ten-year visa and also helps with housing.  Like Indonesia, the capital city is more expensive, but the traffic situation is much better.  Outside the capital, expat retirees can buy a house for $75,000-$150,000.

Penang is a good destination for retirement.  Cheaper and more laid back than Kuala Lumpur, with a good climate and the same excellent food, it offers retirees a great standard of living. 

Vietnam

Vietnam doesn’t have as easy visa situation as Cambodia or Malaysia for retirees.  But Vietnam is currently in the `sweet spot` of development in HCMC, the most developed city in Vietnam.  It is still cheap, but it is developed enough to offer extra conveniences compared to Cambodia, such as readily available taxis and cheaper consumer goods due to economies of scale and other issues. 

Even though Vietnam doesn’t currently offer retirement visas, it is relatively easy to stay on tourist and business visas long term.   Another negative about Vietnam is like Cambodia; excellent health care can only be found in bigger cities such as Ho Chi Minh. Thailand offers world-class healthcare these days, and health tourism has been their reward.  If you get sick or need certain medicines, Vietnam isn’t the best option, even if you get expat medical insurance.

According to International Living (https://internationalliving.com/the-best-places-to-retire/), Vietnam comes way down the list when considering a good place to retire. I would say most expats (both retirees and working-age individuals) seem happy in Cambodia and Vietnam if they can get used to the way of living.

Spain, Portugal, and Greece

Spain is arguably the `original` retiree destination for British, Dutch, Germany and Scandinavian expats. With cheap or subsidized healthcare if you are from the EU (at least for British people until March 2019!), Spain can compete on cost with Thailand and Cambodia once you factor in this benefit.

With relatively good costs in some parts of the country, excellent climate and proximity to other European countries, Spain, Greece, and Portugal will continue to be popular expat destinations.

In Portugal, retirees outside the EU usually hold Type I visas.  That visa requires people to show proof of private health insurance valid in Europe, as well as proof of sufficient funds to support living and a criminal background check. After five years’ residence in Portugal, retirees can apply for a permanent residence visa, with associated health care benefits. 

Portugal has a great reputation of having friendly locals, an easy-going lifestyle, and ease of opening bank accounts.  Against that, driving is supposed to be dangerous and Portuguese is a more difficult language to learn for many expats compared to Spanish and French, but that will depend on your native language. 

Bulgaria

Also in the EU, but certainly not a traditional retirement destination, Bulgaria is an up-and-coming retirement destination. With houses from $55,000, cheap costs and an ever increasing expat community, Bulgaria’s expat community is likely to continue to grow.  Similar to Cambodia within Europe, in some ways.

One of the advantages of Bulgaria is it is in the EU, so expats from other EU countries don’t require visas.  Non-EU citizens who are retired in their home country can apply for a Bulgarian Pensioner ID visa and temporary residence permit.  Documents submitted to the embassy will include:

Documents showing you are entitled to a retirement income, legalized with a notary public. 

Document from a bank in Bulgaria ascertaining that the application has a valid bank account in Bulgaria, where regular transfers can be made 
Evidence of address in Bulgaria 
Medical insurance 

Mexico/Dominican Republic/Panama/Costa Rica : 

For Americans and Canadians, Mexico and the Dominican Republic are good destinations.  The visa situation is very favorable in the Dominican Republic, with even over stayers fined a relatively small amount of money.

Mexico has an easy-going lifestyle, but many people are worried about safety.  Most of the crimes are committed by people who know each other, such as gang members, so retirees aren’t usually targeted.

For Americans all over the world, getting expat insurance will be cheaper than back home.  From experience, most Americans are happier with the overseas insurance situation compared to Europeans.  For British people who have grown up in a system where healthcare is free at the point of use, people can feel it is an extra cost.

One of the advantages of retiring in Panama is that you only need to prove funds of $600 a month.  That doesn’t mean that it is recommended that you can only live on $600 a month in Panama, but it does show the rules are less strict than elsewhere.

Regarding safety and proximity, Costa Rica ticks many boxes.  It has been a retirement destination for Canadians and Americans for 30+ years now for this reason, and many other factors. 

Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Japan

Cash-conscious expats won’t want to retire in Hong Kong or Singapore, but some do.  Millions of expats have worked in these cities, and if you have the income, there are significant benefits of living in these two places.

English is widely spoken, and medical care is amongst the best in the world.  If you have become a permanent residence in Hong Kong, which you can if you live in the city for more than 7 years, moreover, the costs of healthcare are low.  Visas are also easy for Americans, British and many other expats.   You can get a six-month tourist visa on arrival, with no fee.

Singapore also makes tourist visas easy, but there is no retirement visa. You can get a permanent residency visa in Singapore, but that requires investment.  Often it means investing $750,000 or more in the local economy unless you have worked in Singapore for years before retirement. 

Singapore and Hong Kong are also great gateways to other Asian countries.  The bottom line is they are great places to live and even retire, but you need the income.  If you don’t have that, Malaysia (and Thailand to a certain extent) is the closest thing to the developed world, at much lower prices.

South Korea and Japan have a similar visa situation, and they also don’t have any retirement visas.  They aren’t retirement destinations unless somebody has lived in those countries as an expat, or have a personal reason to live there. 

On a personal note, if I were going to retire or be a digital nomad, I would visit more places first.  I have spent time in Kuala Lumpur and HCMC in Vietnam, but never in some of the smaller, more laid-back cities.

As hotels and private rooms in hostels are cheap, I would recommend there is no rush to make a commitment.  In fact in a country like Thailand, where there is an oversupply of hotels, you can sometimes get fantastic value on hotels and on Air BnB.  Even if you plan to retire in SE Asia, I won’t commit to a rental before you first spend a few months on the ground, unless you need it for the visa. 

The situation isn’t too different in Cambodia, Vietnam and in much of Malaysia. As hotels and guest houses include bills, you can often get reasonable places for $15-$30 a month, and that can include a communal swimming pool.  That is option comparable to rental prices once you factor in the bills, and some of the guesthouses offer apartment-like facilities. 

8:5 - Retiring - repatriating to the UK or elsewhere

Some expats go to the opposite destination and decide to go home to the UK or another location. This has tax and other considerations.  I will focus on the UK in this section as that is the country I am most familiar with. For all expats, however, as soon as you become a resident of your country again, that brings about certain financial implications, and qualified advice should be sought where appropriate.   

We should be clear about what repatriation means.  If you decide to spend more time in the UK, you may not be considered a UK resident. If you have a full-time job and you spend less than 91 days in the UK, you are automatically considered a non-resident.  If you spend less than 16 days in the UK, you are also considered non-resident, and 46 days if you have been a non-resident for previous tax years. 

Conversely, if you spend more than 183 days a year in the UK or your only home was in the UK, and you spent at least 30 days there in the tax year, you are automatically considered a UK tax resident.  There is a statuary test calculator on the HMRC website. 

Regarding the UK, if it is possible to plan your return, it is better to return on April 6, the start of the UK tax year.  If you have started drawing income on a pension overseas, regardless of whether it is in a QROPS or SIPP, you are liable to pay tax in the UK when you repatriate.

If you are bringing funds back into the UK, it depends on how many years you have lived outside the UK. If you have been an expat for less than five years, you are considered a temporary non-resident; you may be taxed on gained realized in your absence when you return to the UK.

As soon as you become a resident in the UK, you are liable to UK taxes.  Expats who are non-residents, in comparison, are only liable for income coming from the UK - for example, UK property rentals.

If you come back to the UK, you don’t need to register for self-assessment if you are working as an employed individual, but if you are self-employed or retired, you will need to register for self-assessment.

Capital Gains Tax - Capital Gains Tax is a tax on any investment gains.  By definition, a gain is only made once you sell the investment.  As Capital Gains Tax can be over 20%, taking advantage of ISAs if you live in the UK, or offshore investments if you work outside the UK, is important, as previously discussed.   It is assessed in the tax year in which the gain is made, and your total income will affect the tax rate.

You have a tax-free allowance of £11,100 as of 2017.  Above that level, you pay CGT of 10%-20%, and 18%-28% on the property.  This is once you are living in the UK.  But what about investments you have made overseas?  You may not be liable for UK CGT on investment assets that were purchased while you weren’t resident in the UK, and sold when you were a non-resident. 

Once you repatriate, your total gain from selling the instrument could become subject to CGT.  Therefore, it can make sense to realize your gains on any overseas investments before coming back to the UK, but you should seek qualified advise, especially as tax rules are always changing and may have changed again after I wrote this book. 

HMRC also have a good selection on their website which should help you.  As a general rule, tax is the most complicated element of financial planning for expats, and seeking qualified advise is often need.

Inheritance Tax - Inheritance tax applies to assets held in the UK of a deceased person, or somebody not domiciled in the UK but held assets there.  Therefore, UK Inheritance Tax can apply to children of expats. 

Where you are domiciled is different to residency so UK Inheritance Tax can apply to non-UK residents.  You have an allowance of £325,000 per individual.  Below that amount, your estate including property and shares won’t be subject to tax.

There are practical ways to reduce your liabilities.  Financial gifts of up to £3,000 a year per child are  exempt.  To avoid nursing home costs, if the house is handed over to family members seven years before death, the UK Government cannot use the money from the house to pay for care. These are called Potential Exempt Transfers (PETs).

Returning to the UK - renting and buying property - Many expats coming home will need to rent unless they have a property or somebody to live with.  New rental laws and norms mean many landlords need references from previous landlords and credit checks.  If you have lived overseas for years, this may be tough.  This is especially the case if you aren’t coming back to work, and are self-employed or retiring. 

For people looking to buy UK property, a source of funds is required.  As an expat who has made money overseas, you may be asked for additional proof of where the funds came from.  Anti-money laundering rules exist all around the world but can become stricter for cross-border transactions or people bringing in gains from working in another country.

Insurances and other considerations - Fortunately for most UK repatriates, the NHS is based on residency.  So as soon as you come back home, you are entitled to care.  Private health insurance isn’t needed, unless you want extra fast care, or want to pay privately for any reason.  You need to register with your local NHS General Practitioner and hospital.  You should, therefore, cancel your internationally relevant expat healthcare coverage. Unless you plan to spend a significant amount of time overseas or want the extra coverage, it doesn’t make sense to carry on coverage. 

8.6 - Making your retirement last

In the first chapter, we spoke about how equity markets have outperformed other assets, but that doesn’t mean you should be 100% in stock markets in retirement.  In Sustainable Withdrawal Rates from Your Retirement Portfolio, Philip L. Cooley, Carl M. Hubbard, and Daniel T. Walz examine how safe it is to withdraw specific amounts from your portfolio, depending on the percentage of your portfolio which is in stocks relative to bonds. 

In their own words on page 1 of their report (http://afcpe.org/assets/pdf/vol1014.pdf), “The study looks at the effects of a range of nominal and inflation-adjusted withdrawal rates applied monthly on the success rates of retirement portfolios of large-cap stocks and corporate bonds for payout periods of 15, 20, 25, and 30 years. A portfolio is deemed a success if it completes the payout period with a terminal value that is greater than zero. Using historical financial market returns, the study suggests that portfolios of at least 75% stock provide 4% to 5% inflation-adjusted withdrawals.”

The results of their findings from 1926 until 1997 are shown below, with the top line representing the annualized withdrawal rate from a portfolio, from a 3% withdrawal rate per year, up to a maximum of 12% per year:

Payout period3%4%5%6%7%8%9%10%11%12%
100% stocks
20 years100989694918372584540
25 years100989692887558443829
30 years100989591847460493733
75% stocks, 25% bonds
20 years10010010096948368513830
25 years1001009896907350402919
30 years1001009895886351352614
50% stocks, 50% bonds
20 years10010010010098835536174
25 years1001001001009458351320
30 years10010010098814219500
25% stocks, 75% bonds
20 years10010010010010062231140
25 years10010010010060176000
30 years100100100952150000
100% bonds
20 years10010010091473615400
25 years10010096482982000
30 years1001005326200000

Somethings about the above aren’t surprised.  The fact that taking out an ultra-conservative 3% per annum would lead to a 100% success rate regardless of the stocks to bond ratio, when success is defined as not running out of money over a 20-30 year retirement isn’t surprising as it is ultra-conservative.

Nor is it surprising that having 100% in stocks would make it less likely that you will run out of money if you take out an ultra-aggressive 12% per annum withdrawal rate.  There is a 40% chance of a 100% stock portfolio lasting for 20 years, which is quite high, considering how aggressive 12% is.

What is perhaps more surprising is that the mixed portfolios, and even the 100% bond portfolios, are more likely to last, than a 100% stock portfolio, based on taking out the recommended 4% per annum.  As the success rate is 98% for the pure stock portfolio, but goes up to 100% when the bond ratio is moved up to 25%-75%, there is a small difference here. 

This is probably because, during the Great Recession, the falls were so heavy, that some people may have run out of money, even though markets stated recovering a few years later. 

The above figures show that taking out 4% is safe, and usually,  5% is safe.  Some caveats should be added here.  For people who want their kids to get an inheritance, withdrawing 4% is sufficiently conservative to ensure the money will be worth the same in inflation-adjusted terms in the future.

Sure, your account won’t compound by the 10% before inflation and 6%+ after inflation you can expect before drawing down, but your account should be worth AT LEAST the same in inflation-adjusted terms in the future. Taking out 5% is probably safe in terms of not running out of cash, but it might mean the inheritance you give your kids is worth less than the pot you have now.

Part 8 Key Points:

Withdrawing 4% of your portfolio per annum is safe. Anything above this and you may run out of money, and the money might get eroded due to inflation, meaning your kid's inheritance is at risk. 

Retiring overseas can be cheaper and better regarding lifestyle, but takes planning.  
Expat health insurance will be the most expensive thing in retirement if you have pre-existing conditions.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A1967

9.  Case studies

The model portfolios and evidence in this book are academically tested, but finance is a personal thing.  Let’s look at some people and their situation, and see what I would recommend.

Individuals can have complex needs, so the below are simply examples to illustrate best practices, which should be followed. 

Person 1:  David, a 50-year-old UK national who lives in the UK.

David is 50, lives in Birmingham and has a small mortgage.  He has contributed towards National Insurance all his working life, so will get the old age pension.  He earns 30,000 a year.  He has 20,000 in savings and doesn’t have a substantial private pension.

Advise:  David should aim to replace 70% of his income in retirement, so should be aiming at an income of 21,000.  As he will get the state pension of 6,000-7,000 a year, he has a deficit of 14,000-15,000. He may need a private pension as high as 350,000, if he lives more than 30 years in retirement, and especially if he wants to pass on money to his kids.

This isn’t easy, but David should invest his 20,000 into the markets using the model portfolios as soon as possible, in a tax efficient ISA.  He should continue to save and invest every month. Based on saving 1,000 a month, there is a reasonable chance the gap will be filled, if markets are performing at historical averages.

Person 2:  Sarah, a 45-year-old UK national who lives in Singapore

Sarah has moved to Singapore on an expat package, earning $200,000 a year.  She has a house and mortgage in the UK, a company pension worth 1.3 million Sterling, and savings worth more than 100,000.

Advise:  Sarah can’t invest in an ISA, as a non-UK taxpayer.  There are alternative tax-efficient schemes she can invest in for her pension, using the same portfolios as person 1.  The only difference is currency.  As Sarah is living in the international market, she should consider investing in USD, especially if she doesn’t plan to come back to the UK for a long time.

Sarah should also consider transferring her Pension to a QROPS (we will discuss QROPS later), especially as her pension is worth 1.3M and is therefore above the lifetime allowance, and isn’t a final salary pension. 

As Sarah is higher income than David, she will need a bigger pension. She should aim to receive $140,000 a year in retirement.  This is a pension worth $3.5M.   As she already has 1.3M Sterling (around 1.8M USD on current exchange rates), she still has a 1.7M deficit.  She should try to fill this deficit by investing more while she has the chance, on an expat salary, which may only last for 3-4 years.

Person 3:  Martin, a 58-year-old UK national who lives in Thailand.

Martin came to Thailand 5 years ago.  He was a teacher in the UK, and has a final salary scheme, which he can start withdrawing ASAP. 

Advise:  Martin should make sure his pension is enough to live off in Thailand.  As his teacher's pension is below the lifetime allowance and he is about to draw it, transferring it to a QROPS probably doesn’t make sense. 

Person 4:  David, an American in Shanghai.

David will be posted to Shanghai for three years, earning $150,000, and he plans to go back and live in America. 

Advise:  For Americans like David, or indeed American taxpayers and non-domiciled individuals, it is one of the few occasions where it is better to continue investing in the home country (the US) due to the Inland Revenue’s new FATCA rules since 2014 (see glossary at the back) 

Person 5:  Philippe, a Belgium living in Kuala Lumpur

Philippe is a Belgium expat who has lived in SE Asia for ten years. He has a pension in Belgium worth 500,000 Euros. 

He has five properties in Belgium and 1 in Thailand, all on mortgage except the Thai property, and no pension.

Advise:  For Belgium, Dutch and Irish citizens, it is often a good idea to transfer pensions, if the value is above 150,000 Euros, as the benefits are likely to outweigh the fees.  As always, depending on the country of residence, consider the tax implications of any transfer. 

Living off an illiquid asset such as property in retirement is high risk.  Philippe should consider selling at least half of his properties and invest in liquid assets, which historically outperform. 

As his properties are on mortgage, whether he sells or buys will depend on a number of factors, such as how much equity he can get out of the house. 

Life insurance on a mortgage is compulsory in many countries, but if this is not the case in the countries where he has purchased the housing, he should buy some cheap coverage. 

Person 6:  A German man, Hans, who used to live and work in the UK for 10 years, and is now in Switzerland.

Hans lived and worked in the UK for ten years, in a high paying job in London, and accumulated 150,000 in private UK pension contributions.  He now lives in Switzerland and plans to retire in Germany in five years.

Advise:  Due to the uncertainty surrounding Brexit and the reasonable pension contributions, he should consider transferring his UK pension contributions overseas, and especially it would make sense for him to have it denominated in Euros if he plans to live in Germany.

Person 7:  Christian, a 65-year-old Austrian expat in Thailand.

Christian has saved enough for retirement but has pre-existing medical health conditions after cancer stuck two years ago.

Advise:  Christian should get comprehensive medical insurance that will cover him, if possible, or go back to his home country, where health coverage will be free at the point of use if he can’t afford health coverage.

Person 8:  Sarah, who is 62 and lives in America. 

Sarah is 62.  She has been a tutor for 25 years, after changing career.  She teaches in the private sector.   She hasn’t saved for a pension, but lives in her own house, having paid off the mortgage.  She has $50,000 in savings.  Her annual salary is $30,000.

Advise:  Sarah should invest the $50,000, despite her age, but in a portfolio which includes at least 25% government bonds.  She is in a position nobody wants to be in, having not saved enough in her working years.  Whilst her health remains, she should try to save enough money to at least give her some income in retirement, and work part-time if needed, to help her income through retirement.  If she works full-time for ten  more years until age 72, she may accumulate enough in assets that ensure she can work part-time after that.

Person 9, a sports star called Sam, earning millions a year.

Advise: Unless this person can earn money from being a TV analyst or coach in the future, they might have to get used to a much lower income after 35.  Even if they get good paying work, the vast majority earn less.  If Sam doesn’t save enough to due to unhealthy spending habits, he may become bankrupt in the future, like countless other stars.

Person 10:  A man in the UK called Andrew, who has a job offer to go back to his home town

Andrew earns 50,000 in London, and has a job offer for 45,000 in his hometown, a small town in the Midlands.  He doesn’t own property in London as he rents. 

Advise:  Based on purely financial advice as opposed to social and personal reasons, it is highly likely he will be better off accepting the 45,000 offer.  It is 5,000 less, but only around 3,500 less after tax.  Based on cost of living considerations, it is likely he can save more in his hometown, and therefore become financially independent sooner. 

Person 11:  A fed up 52-year-old business executive in Australia called Daniel

Daniel is 52-year-old, and has grown up kids.  He earns the equivalent of $200,000 a year.  He has paid off the mortgage on his $700,000 house and wants to travel.  He also has other assets worth $500,000.

Advise:  Daniel can retire if he can get used to an income of $48,000 a year, 4% of his $1.2M net wealth.  He will first need to find a buyer for his house, and it may make sense for him to spend some of the years outside of Australia, where his money will get him further.

If he does retire despite his relatively young age, he should put at least 25% of his assets in government bonds, to manage risk. 

Key Points from Section 3:

Sound financial planning will depend on your individual circumstances, such as your nationality, age, and situation now. 

Point 1 notwithstanding, some basic things are universal, such as investing as early as possible into a well-diversified portfolio.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A2022

10.  Conclusion.  What are the six steps?

Financial independence is a brilliant thing, but it is something few people have. Cultural norms, debt and bad advice all combine to make it harder for people to make the right decisions.

The vast majority of people (95%+ of people at least), would benefit from investing from a young age, in cheap funds, which are diversified and include government bonds and some international exposure.

Most people would also benefit from ignoring the conventional wisdom we see on the TV and in general culture, about gold, property and indeed debt in general.  Debt, including property debt, should be avoided as a generalization.  Real estate is an indulgence, as opposed to an investment to rival the S&P or Dow Jones.

The stock markets outperform other investments, and with the exception of Japan, the markets always go up long-term.  In the 20th century, the US Dow Jones started at 66 and ended at 11,400, and yet so many people lose money, listening to the wrong advice and engaging in an illogical behavior. 

As Warren Buffett says, one of the biggest reasons why people still managed to lose money during this period is they tried to dance in and out of markets.  Maket timing and speculating isn’t a good strategy. Stay invested. 

Buffett himself, who is one of the great investors of all time, `lost` 25 billion during the financial crisis, seeing his wealth go down to 37 billion from 62 billion.  He simply stayed calm, invested when valuations were down and continued to invest when valuations picked up.

If Buffett doesn’t have a magic formula for always winning, every year, then nobody does.  If somebody did, there would be somebody in investing who is twice or three times wealthier than he is.

There are those who outperform some years, even sometimes over a decade, but over-performance don’t last.  The most accurate information on all investment prospectus is `past performance is no indicator of future returns`, and yet it is also the most widely ignored. 

This is ignored, often because people are hardwired to assume the past will replicate itself.  This is one example of how human emotions get in the way of sound investing decisions.  Another example of fearing volatility.  As this book has made clear, one doesn’t need to fear volatility.

Even if somebody were incredibly unlucky to invest all their life savings in 2008 or 1929, and also had no money to invest when markets were down, they would still have made money if they would have been patient and reinvested the dividends from the investments each year. 

Above all else, gaining financial independence takes time and effort.  It isn’t complicated, as this book has sought to show, but it does run contrary to human nature.  Greed, fear, and egotism all conspire to rob investors of the gains they could be getting.

Marketers don’t help.  98% of industries depend on consumers believing that money, spending, and consumerism will make them happier when the evidence suggests that using money to buy your independence and to stop you doing things you don’t want to do is much more likely to make you satisfied.  Most real estate brokers and others will also have their agenda.

I would suggest three main stages any person should go through to become a better investor and gain financial independence.  Firstly ask yourself if you want it enough.  Are you willing to make the compromises needed to be retired or semi-retired at age 35-40 if you want to be?

Secondly, if the answer is yes, start saving and investing straight away.  Don’t try to time markets.  Use one of the model portfolios in this book or employ an advisor who will help you build one of these portfolios.  Finally be patient, accumulate and don’t speculate.

In Mark Cuban’s book mentioned above, he mentioned how he got an advantage in business by often spending 3 hours a day reading.  The lions share of the reading would be publicly available information, but most people didn’t read or want to.

The same applies to investment.  Simply by reading publicly available books, including this eBook and those listed in the reading section, people can make decisions which could add at least $500,000 or more to their lifetime wealth. 

The hardest part of doing the right things isn’t just human nature, but also the path of least resistance.  Perhaps this is also human nature to want life to be easy.  Amazon has gotten so big as it makes things simple to buy.  Google partly beat Yahoo as they made processes simple, and Apple did the same with the iPhone.

Applied to financial services, most consumers out there prefer the easy option.  To keep dealing with the same providers, they have dealt with all their life.  To not say no to a friend with bad spending habits.  To say yes to bad investments as the process of setting it up is easy as it can all be done online.

To get better returns won’t always mean inconveniences.  Some of the options listed in this book can be done online, and some of the principles just require self-control.  Ultimately, it is deciding what you value in life and if you think true financial independence is worth it.

Given all that has been said so far, what do I believe are the six main steps to financial freedom, and reducing risk? I will list them here:

1) Get an average middle-class job  or a high-paying one. While your saving habits are more key than your income, having at least an average income will help you create a surplus.  Investing money earning the minimum wage will be more difficult, regardless of your spending habits. Even if you don’t have this, simply invest any inheritance you get, especially if you get it at an early age.

2)  Watch your spending habits.  They matter more than your income.

3) Ignore all marketing trying to convince you to spend money on impressing people you don’t care about, or marketing claiming real estate or gold outperform markets.  Simply look at the academic evidence and invest in the model portfolios I outlined before, increasing your bond allocation as you age.  Either do it yourself if you have the self-discipline, or like the 80%-90% of DIY investors who don’t, pay somebody 1% per annum to do it on your behalf.

4) Spend a maximum of 5% of your income on wealth protection, such as income protection, health, and life insurance, depending on which country you live in and whether or not you have kids.

5) Make sure you invest the model portfolios into tax efficient structures, such as ISAs in the UK, or offshore bonds for expats, and take advantage of tax-efficient structures like QROPS and SIPPS.

6). After you retire, don’t withdraw more than 4% of your portfolio per year.  If you don’t follow this rule, you risk either running out of funds or your kids may not get the inheritance hoped for.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A2055

11.  Reading List

During the introduction to this book, I made clear that most people aren’t interested in some of the drier academic books on the subject.  I am sure that doesn’t apply to all of you!  Here is a list of some books you may find useful.  Some are academic, and some aren’t, but are useful in their way:

http://joi.iijournals.com - The Journal of Investing

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/15406261 - The Journal of Finance

Paul Farrell - The Lazy Person’s Guide to Investing: A Book for Procrastinators, the Financially Challenged, and Everyone Who Worries About Dealing With Their Money

Burton Malkiel and Charles Ellis. The Elements of Investing

Larry Swedroe. The Only Guide to an Investment Strategy You’ll Ever Need

Larry Swedroe. The Quest For Alpha: The Holy Grail of Investing

John Bogle, The Little Book of Common Sense Investing: Only Way to Guarantee Your Fair Share of Stock Market Returns (Little Books. Big Profits)

William Bernstein. The Four Pillars of Investing: Lessons for Building a Winning Portfolio

John Bogle - Common Sense on Mutual Funds: New Imperatives for the Intelligent Investor

John Bogle’s “The Clash of the Cultures”

David Swensen, Unconventional Success: A Fundamental Approach to Personal Investment

Lawrence Cunningham. The Essays of Warren Buffett: Lessons for Corporate America, Second Edition

“Security Analysis” by Benjamin Graham

Benjamin Graham’s “Intelligent Investor.”

Carl Richards, The Behavior Gap, Simple Ways to Stop Doing Dumb Things with Your Money.

Thinking Fast and Slow, Daniel Kahneman

Extraordinary Popular Delusions and The Madness of Crowds, Charles Mackay.

The Essays of Warren Buffett

George Soros, The Alchemy of Finance

For some non-investing books that I have found useful to understand human behavior, which indirectly affects investing choice, I would suggest the following books:

Dale Carnegie, How to Win Friends and Influence People

Nassim Taleb, Fooled by Randomness

Shaan Patel, Self-Made Success

For some blogs and websites:

https://www.mrmoneymustache.com/

http://www.thedigeratilife.com/blog/

https://www.thesimpledollar.com

http://www.budgetsaresexy.com

http://moneyning.com

https://www.consumerismcommentary.com

https://www.moneycrashers.com

http://www.wisebread.com

https://www.getrichslowly.org/archives/

And of course…

adamfayed.com!

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A2099

12.  Glossary

Stocks - An individual stock is just a company that is public-listed on the stock exchange.  Apple, IBM and Amazon are three examples.

Equities/Equity Markets - Another word for stocks and stock markets

FTSE 100 - The biggest 100 companies in the UK

FTSE250 - The biggest 250 companies in the UK

Dow Jones and S&P -  Two of the biggest stock market indexes in US, comprising the biggest firms in the US

Nasdaq - The technology index in the US, comprised of the biggest technology companies in the US.

DAX - German Stock Exchange, comprising the 30 biggest German companies.

CAC - The French Stock Exchange, comprising the 40 biggest French companies. 

Government bonds - Governments get into debt, and they need to sell this debt to fund the deficit. They pay investors a small amount of money to lend to them.  Traditionally bonds in the US have been an asset which has underperformed markets, but go up during periods when markets goes down, such as in the Great Depression of the 1930s. 

Funds - Funds are selections of stocks and other assets.  A technology fund may be made up of technology companies, while t a US fund will have US stocks.

Index funds - Funds that just buy the entire market.  So the biggest US Markets are the S&P Index and the Dow Jones Index.  A US Index fund will therefore track the performance of the overall index, by buying all the companies in the index.

Leverage - Another word for debt

Buy-to-let - Where an investor doesn’t use property as a home, but buys to rent out to others.  Usually the investor will buy on debt through a mortgage, and hope the rent will cover the mortgage. 

Inflation - The amount goods and services are rising by each year.

Deflation - When prices decrease.  The opposite of inflation.

Nominal Terms - The amount in cash terms, which doesn’t account for inflation.  If you are earning $50,000 and $55,000 next year, you are earning 10% more in nominal terms.

Real Terms - The amount adjusted for costs.  Nominal Terms - inflation = real terms.  So giving the aforementioned example of somebody earning $55,000 in 2019, rather than $50,000 in 2018, if inflation is 10%, that person is getting a 0% pay rise.  If inflation is 0%, that person is earning a 10% pay rise in real terms.  If inflation is 2%, that person is earning around 8% in inflation adjusted terms.

Bitcoin - Bitcoin is one form of cryptocurrency, or electronic currency. Unlike a currency such as the US Dollar, there are no physical coins. It is all electronic, and decentralized.  There is no government or central bank controlling the currency.  Only examples include Ripple and Ethereum. 

Pensions - money people are paid in retirement, after they stop working.  However, pensions aren’t just for people over the age of 55 or 60. Self-invested pensions can be drawn at any age. 

Dividends - Most publicly listed companies pay yearly dividends, or income, to shareholders.  The S&P Index and UK FTSE typically have a dividend rate of around 2%, although dividends in the UK FTSE is now around 4.5% per year. 

Gold bugs:  advocates of gold as a good investment.  Often they permanently advocate owning it.

DIY investing:  People investing themselves on online platforms, rather than using a financial advisor or wealth manager.

FATCA - This stands for Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. FATCA requires all foreign financial institutions (banks, investment brokers, etc) to report to the US tax authorities on financial accounts held by US citizens, or by foreign entities in which US taxpayers hold a substantial ownership interest.  Many Americans now can’t open bank account and broker accounts easily in foreign countries, especially investment accounts.

Deductible/co-pay -  In insurance, a $0 deductible or co-pay means the insurer will pay for all the costs of the treatment. If the procedure costs $10,000 and is covered, they pay the full $10,000.  So the insurance is more expensive than having a $1,500 deductible, as an example. If this route is taken, using the aforementioned example, the insurer would cover $8,500 of the costs, and you would cover $1,500 of the cost.

PrFPQOUeQVOBlj-irhod4A2130

13.  Personal Contact details

I get asked for the best way to contact me.  My personal email address is adamfayed@hotmail.co.uk.  I have had the email address for about 15 years, so it isn’t likely to change.  It is also connected to my Skype, so is also useful in case some of your messages go to junk mail.  I try hard to respond to all messages, if it is possible and practical.